Foreword
The present paper aims at reviewing the major developments in Digital Volume Correlation
(DVC) over the past ten years. It follows the first review on DVC that was published in 2008 by
its pioneer [11]. In the latter, the interested reader will find all the general principles associated
with what is now called local DVC. They will not be recalled hereafter. In such approaches
the region of interest is subdivided into small subvolumes that are independently registered. In
addition to its wider use with local approaches, DVC has been extended to global approaches
in which the displacement field is defined in a dense way over the region of interest. Kinematic
bases using finite element discretizations have been selected. To further add mechanical content,
elastic regularization has been introduced. Last, integrated approaches use kinematic fields that
are constructed from finite element simulations with chosen constitutive equations. The material
parameters (and/or boundary conditions) then become the quantities of interest.
    These various implementations assume different degrees of integration of mechanical knowl-
edge about the analyzed experiment. First and foremost, DVC can be considered as a stand-alone
technique, which has seen its field of applications grow over the last ten years. In this case the
measured displacement fields and post-processed strain fields are reported. With the introduction
of finite element based DVC, the measured displacement field is continuous. It is also a stand-
alone technique. However, given the fact that it shares common kinematic bases with numerical
simulations, it can be easily combined with the latter. One route is to require local satisfaction
of equilibrium via mechanical regularization. Another route is to fully merge DVC analyses and
numerical simulations via integrated approaches. Different examples will illustrate how these var-
ious integration steps can be tailored and what are the current challenges associated with various
approaches.
Contents
1 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
2 Three-dimensional imaging of unloaded and loaded materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            9
  2.1  Three-dimensional imaging of materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         9
  2.2  Ex-situ and in-situ experiments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     16
3 From local to integrated DVC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     23
  3.1  Overall presentation of DVC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     24
  3.2  Kinematic basis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   40
  3.3  Numerical implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      46
  3.4  Identification and Validation     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
  3.5  Regularized DVC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     51
  3.6  Integrated DVC . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    59
  3.7  DVC for NDE purposes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        64
4 Uncertainty and bias quantifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     67
  4.1  Uncertainty quantifications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     67
  4.2  Theoretical study of projection noise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     72
  4.3  How white is white noise? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     76
  4.4  Measurement biases and artifacts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      78
5 Challenges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83
  5.1  Material microstructure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     83
  5.2  DVC algorithms      . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85
  5.3  Identification and validation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   87
  5.4  4D kinematic measurements from fast tomography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            89
  5.5  Volume data / duration of acquisition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       90
  5.6  Projection-based DVC: fast 4D kinematic measurement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             92
6 Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
1 Introduction
Computed (x-ray) tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), optical coherence to-
mography (OCT), positron emission tomography (PET), single photon emission computed to-
mography (SPECT) are five well-known modalities in the medical field. They have revolutionized
the way medical diagnosis is performed [102, 138, 167]. The new opportunities offered by these 3D
imaging techniques have led to considerable instrumentation developments since the mid 90s, and
increased accessibility have made microtomography one tool of choice in material science [142, 200,
208]. It is possible to inspect internally industrial or natural materials [8, 51] using lab tomographs
or tomography beamlines at synchrotron radiation facilities. The microstructure of different ma-
terials can be visualized and quantified in nondestructive or minimally intrusive manner [208,
144].
    For diagnosis, treatment and basic science [102] among other reasons, there is a need for de-
veloping intra- and inter-modality registrations [228, 141, 102]. In particular, following temporal
motions of bones or tissues calls for registering different images for a better apprehension of qual-
itative and quantitative changes. Here again, medical applications have been a major driver for
very early works especially from the image processing community (optics and applied mathemat-
ics). The same benefit is found in materials science, when the same sample is imaged in the bulk
at different levels of load. Localization bands were first revealed within sand samples when x-rayed
ex-situ [50].
    Specific loading apparatus were subsequently designed to be compatible with the absorption of
x-rays to perform in-situ tests. This is one critical element to consider when designing such testing
devices [85, 12, 56]. Mechanical experiments coupled with x-ray tomography began with the ob-
servations of crack openings in aluminum alloy [85]. Other tests coupled with in-situ tomographic
observations were developed over the years [26]. Significant progress was made in the design of
new testing setups and more importantly on the understanding of various degradation mechanisms
that could only be revealed thanks to observations in the bulk of materials [56, 26]. Depending
on the imaging modality and the studied material, the loading device had to be adapted to the
experimental environment [14, 164, 72].
    Having access to ex-situ or in-situ observations during different types of loading histories, the
next critical step was the measurement of displacement fields in the bulk of imaged samples.
The first 3D displacement measurements via so-called Digital Volume Correlation (DVC) were
performed on trabecular bone compressed in-situ in a computed microtomographic (μCT) scan-
ner [12]. A local approach was implemented. Other applications followed in the field of biomechan-
ics (e.g., see Refs. [194, 11, 106, 241, 17, 193, 44, 40, 43, 109]). At the beginning of the current decade,
DVC was clearly identified as one technique very suited to biomechanical applications [239]. For
instance, local variations in microstructure were associated with failure patterns in the verte-
bra [220]. The internal strain and failure in prophylactically-augmented vertebrae were studied
thanks to DVC analyses [47]. The authors showed that the failure initiated inside the augmented
vertebral body, next to the injected cement mass. Noninvasive assessments of the intra-vertebral
heterogeneity in density improved the predictions of vertebral strength and stiffness [107].
    In solid mechanics, different classes of materials were investigated thanks to DVC measure-
ments. Very early on, various types of foams were imaged via tomography and their behavior was
studied thanks to DVC [207, 11, 197, 181, 59, 15, 64]. The degradation mechanisms of such materials
in indentation experiments received some attention [231, 20, 22]. One of the reasons is that tomog-
raphy reveals their in-situ temporal development, which can only be assessed post-mortem with
other investigations. Such observations were subsequently compared with numerical simulations
for (in)validation purposes [201, 21].
    Localized phenomena are situations in which full-field measurements make a (huge) differ-
ence (e.g., strain localization [127, 1, 214, 49] and cracks [198, 231, 94]). This is particularly true
when kinematic measurements can be performed nondestructively in the material bulk. Very het-
erogeneous strain fields were measured by global DVC in a compression test on polypropylene
solid foam [197]. When analyzing compressed stone wool, it was shown that the material density
was responsible for local heterogeneities in strains, and that correlations existed between local
density and strain [97]. Similar trends were observed in low density wood fiberboard [222]. For
cellulose fiber mats correlations between high density gradient zones and maximum eigen strains
were reported [112]. More recently it was shown that the volume change in Si-based electrodes
increased with the lithiation degree, while the gray levels decreased with respect to the original
(i.e., nonlithiated) state [178].
     Nodular graphite cast iron, which is a model material for DVC analyses, has been extensively
studied. Crack initiation was analyzed in very high cycle fatigue experiments with evaluated strain
fields [66]. Stress intensity factor profiles were extracted from experimentally measured displace-
ment fields [133]. Crack opening displacements were also evaluated in graphite via DVC [160,
163]. A single macrocrack was studied in a double torsion experiment on recrystallized porous
silicon carbide by analyzing displacement and correlation residual fields [128]. Delamination in
layered composites was quantified with the use of displacement [125] or strain [19] fields. Crack
propagation features were analyzed. In particular, the local crack propagation law was extracted
from the kinematic measurements [132]. Likewise, crack initiation was observed in cast aluminum
alloy with kinematic and residual fields [234]. Short fatigue cracks were analyzed in cast magne-
sium alloy with the measured bulk displacement fields [147]. Stress intensity factor profiles were
extracted from the analysis of a short fatigue crack in cast iron [119]. Such analyses are very
challenging since the graphite nodules interact with short cracks.
     Granular materials usually possess sufficient x-ray absorption contrast to enable for DVC
analyses [69]. Force chains in Mason sand was evaluated by considering the minor eigen strains
evaluated via DVC measurements [103]. The analysis of multiple debond cracks was shown to
be possible in a tensile test on a propellant-like material thanks to global DVC by using the
correlation residuals [95]. The same mechanism was found in polymer bonded sugar in uniaxial
compression [104]. The gray level residuals were also used to detect matrix/nodule debonding in
cast iron [93, 219, 29]. Maximum eigen strain fields enabled multiple microcracking to be quanti-
fied in brittle materials [101, 231, 94, 240] and damage in SiC/SiC composites [201]. Other strain
descriptors such as the first and second invariants were used to detect cracks [38].
    The effect of temperature on the material response was analyzed thanks to ex-situ and in-situ
tests. Cracking induced by accelerated (i.e., ex-situ) desiccation of a cement paste containing
glass beads was quantified via DVC [101]. Similarly, accelerated maturation of Kimmeridge clay
was monitored in-situ up to 380°C [63] with 2-min acquisitions of 1800 radiographs. Sintering of
copper was monitored in-situ at 1050°C. The motion of particles and shrinkage (i.e., volumetric)
strain fields were evaluated [151]. This type of approach corresponds to the first step toward model
validation of sintering processes. In-situ thermomechanical tests have started in part thanks to fast
acquisitions on synchrotron lines. Fatigue initiation and propagation mechanisms were analyzed
in-situ at temperatures up to 250°C in cyclic tensile tests on Al-Si alloy [45]. The duration of
each tomographic scan was 45 s. Thanks to fast acquisitions (i.e., 4 s for 720 acquired projections
per tomogram) damage mechanisms were observed and quantified in terms of strain fields during
in-situ uniaxial compression of a semi-solid Al-Cu alloy at 550°C [32].
    Most of the DVC analyses reported so far were based upon x-ray μCT. This technique is suited
to elongated (e.g., axisymmetric or cylindrical) samples. However, plate-like samples can also be
imaged via computed laminography [87]. When compared to μCT [131], it leads to higher levels
of measurement uncertainties [156], which are partly due to the missing spatial frequencies and
reduced resolution of laminographic scans along the rotation axis [238]. However, it could still
be used to analyze the flat-to-slant transition of ductile tearing of aluminum alloys for low stress
triaxialities with global DVC [156, 158, 30] and regularized DVC [214, 157].
    Registration of medical Magnetic Resonance images has been carried out for a long time for
diagnosis and treatment purposes (e.g., see Refs. [228, 209, 141, 102, 199, 195]). Conversely, there
are very few results of in-situ mechanical tests imaged via MRI or μMRI. Global DVC was applied
to the analysis of a compression test on cancellous bone [14]. It was shown that the measurement
uncertainties were at most of the same order as for CT and that very early on such materials did
not deform uniformly. Global DVC was applied to cardiac magnetic resonance images of a healthy
human subject. A finite strain regularization framework was implemented [76].
    All the previous examples dealt with opaque (to the human eyes) materials. For transparent
materials, other methods can be used. For instance, fluorescence confocal microscopy was used to
measure 3D displacements of compressed aragose gel containing fluorescent particles. In that case,
the warping of each sub-volume was described by six degrees of freedom (i.e., three translations,
and three diagonal component of the stretch tensor [71]). Laser-scanning confocal microscopy can
also be used to measure the deformation of the same material [105]. So-called cellular surface
traction forces were determined by combining the previously mentioned imaging technique and
DVC [148]. It was also shown that contractile forces regulate cell divisions [129]. Randomly dis-
tributed particles in transparent resins scatter light when illuminated by a planar laser beam [77].
When the position of the laser beam is changed, a stack of planar slices is obtained and can be
registered by DVC. When compared to CT data, similar uncertainty levels were reported. Optical
coherence tomography is another 3D imaging technique to image semi-transparent materials. It
was shown that full-field OCT setups were well adapted to perform static elastography of tissue
samples via regularized DVC [164]. Local DVC was used to monitor an inflation test on porcine
cornea [72].
    This non exhaustive literature review shows that many applications have been made possible
thanks to the use of 3D imaging techniques combined with early ex-situ and now more frequently
in-situ mechanical tests. DVC is becoming a tool of choice to quantify various deformation and
failure mechanisms. Gradually experimentally measured displacement fields are being compared
with 3D numerical simulations for validation and identification purposes. To further illustrate the
increased interest in DVC analyses, Figure 1 shows the yearly number of citations counted by the
“Web of Science” platform. The one hundred mark was reached in 2010.
Fig. 1 Number of citations when the chosen topic is “Digital Volume Correlation” via Web of Science search
on June 23, 2017
    Even though many achievements have been reported, a number of cases/materials remain
challenging. This papers aims at discussing many of them. However, the first required step is to
summarize various 3D imaging techniques and to describe the possible artifacts they may induce
in their quantitative use via DVC analyses. The next step is to review issues associated with
ex-situ and in-situ mechanical tests. Various DVC approaches have been proposed in the last
two decades. They are summarized and illustrated with examples. In order not to duplicate the
existing review on local approaches [11], more emphasis is put on global approaches. One key
aspect of DVC analyses is their uncertainty quantification, which is partly related to the way
3D images are obtained. Last, some research directions are sketched to address questions and
limitations of current implementations of DVC algorithms and their subsequent use for modeling
and simulation purposes.
2 Three-dimensional imaging of unloaded and loaded materials
2.1 Three-dimensional imaging of materials
The aim of this section is not to give an exhaustive and detailed overview of 3D imaging. The
reader will find general sources of information in all of the discussed techniques. Rather the focus
is put on the possible consequences of the use of each technique in conjunction with DVC analyses
(e.g., artifacts induced by the acquisition process).
2.1.1 Tomography and laminography
X-ray computed tomography (or CT) produces 3D images of objects from a set of 2-dimensional x-
ray images (i.e., projections). In a CT system, the component to be imaged is placed on a turntable
or a rotating axis between the radiation source and the imaging system. While the sample is
rotated, the digital detector records a large set of 2D x-ray images for different angular positions.
The x-ray attenuation (or sometimes phase contrast) map is then computed or reconstructed from
these 2D projections. Various algorithms are available to carry out this reconstruction [114]. The
x-ray source is either produced in a synchrotron facility (for which the x-ray beam is generally
parallel, monochromatic and coherent) or by an x-ray tube (e.g., microfocus sources) for lab
tomographs where the beam is cone shaped, polychromatic and incoherent. The typical resolution
is of the order of 1 to 10 μm per voxel for micro-CT. Therefore x-ray microtomography is sometimes
referred to as x-ray microscopy [55, 177].
    There are numerous sources of artifacts in computed tomography [48]. Some of them lead
to gray level variations (e.g., beam hardening with polychromatic x-ray sources), specific curves
(e.g., streak or ring artifacts) and some are associated with spurious motions (e.g., source motion
for lab systems, sample motion, wobbling) that degrade the reconstruction qualities. Not all of
them are impacting DVC analyses. However, careful analyses should be performed to evaluate
measurement uncertainties before reporting any result (see Section 4).
    In tomography, the rotation axis is perpendicular to the x-ray beam. Consequently, most
of the imaged samples have stick-like shapes so that the total x-ray attenuation does not vary
too much between different angular positions. If the rotation axis is no longer parallel to the
detector plane, then thin sheets can be imaged. This type of imaging configuration is designated
as laminography [87], which is used for non destructive evaluations (NDEs) in the micro-electronics
industry [81], but micrometer resolution is restricted (up to now) to synchrotron facilities thanks
to the use of parallel beams.
    All the artifacts listed above for computed tomography may occur in computed laminography
as well. Further, it is noteworthy that the sampling of the 3D Fourier domain of the region of
interest is incomplete in laminography [88], which leads to additional imaging artifacts [238].
These artifacts may degrade the displacement and strain resolutions when DVC is applied [156].
In Section 4.1, displacement and strain uncertainties are studied for three different materials that
are imaged via laminography. Figure 2 shows sections of the three reconstructed volumes. For the
two aluminum alloys, the volume fraction of features (i.e., pores and secondary inclusions) to be
used in DVC analyses is less than 0.8 % for the AA2139 grade (Figure 2(a)), and 0.3 % volume
fraction of metallic inclusions (Figure 2(b)) for the AA2198 grade. Nodular graphite cast iron has
different microstructural length scales where nodules appear in dark and the ferritic matrix in
bright levels (Figure 2(c)).
             (a) AA2139                           (b) AA2198                               (c) GJS-400
Fig. 2 Mid-thickness section in 3D reconstructed volumes of two different aluminum alloys and one cast iron
sample. The picture definition is 2040 × 2040 pixels for aluminum alloys and 1600 × 1600 for cast iron. The
physical length of one voxel is 0.7  μm for aluminum alloys and 1.1 μm for cast iron. The ring artifacts from
static features on the projection radiographs are visible (especially for sub-figures (a) and (b))
    Nanotomography is nowadays accessible in synchrotron facilities and even lab tomographs
thanks to various focussing devices of x-ray beams [237]. Resolutions as low as 20 nm can be
achieved in synchrotron facilities [144]. This type of resolution requires very stable systems and
very accurate actuation to allow for meaningful reconstructions. Nanolaminography was also
shown to be feasible very recently at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility [90].
    Although tomography, because of its medical inheritance is mainly associated with the use of
x-rays as the radiation source, the procedure itself is above all a technique of reconstruction of
data acquired by the radiation-matter interaction where scattering is weak. It can therefore be
adapted to many types of radiations as diverse as neutrons [224, 225], muons, electrons or gamma
radiations [24, 173, 172, 174], visible optics, THz electromagnetic radiations, magnetic fields or
ultrasound.
2.1.2 Magnetic Resonance Imaging
MRI is a noninvasive imaging technique that produces three dimensional images without the use
of damaging radiation (e.g., x-rays). It is often used for disease detection, diagnosis, and treatment
monitoring [138]. Its principle consists of exciting and detecting the change in direction of the
spins of magnetic atom nuclei, and in particular protons that are very convenient for imaging
water in living tissues. Powerful magnets are utilized. They produce strong magnetic fields that
force protons to align with them. When a radiofrequency current is then pulsed, the protons are
stimulated and spin out of equilibrium, thereby “straining” them against the pull induced by the
magnetic field. When the radiofrequency field is turned off, the sensors detect the energy released
as the protons realign with the magnetic field. The time it takes for the protons to realign and
the amount of released energy change depending on the environment and the chemical nature of
the molecules.
    Spatial encoding of the MRI signal is accomplished through the use of gradients in magnetic
fields that cause atom spins in different locations to precess at slightly different rates. Phase
tagging enables for another spatial encoding, thereby providing echo planar images (i.e., one
slice). As the protons undergo relaxation, the change in the local magnetic fields creates currents
in the receive coils. These currents are detected as a change in voltage. The signal is then sampled,
digitized, and finally stored for processing. It is broken down and spatially located to produce
images.
    Pixel sizes range in clinical MRI from mm to sub-mm. Voxel dimensions are given by the
pixel size and the thickness of the slice (i.e., measured along the magnetic field gradient). Slice
thicknesses in clinical MRI vary from a maximum ≈ 5 mm, which is achieved using multislice
imaging, to sub-mm with 3D scanning techniques. When using micro-MRI equipments, the voxel
size can be decreased to typically 100 μm [14] but require extremely intense magnetic fields. The
acquisition process associated with MRI is generally much longer than with (x-ray) tomography.
This is even longer when micro-MRI is performed (e.g., 9 h for 512 × 256 × 256-voxel images
with an isotropic voxel size of 78 μm, see Figure 3(a)). The trabecular network of cancellous bone
revealed by micro-MRI was shown to be suitable for correlation purposes.
                   (a)                                           (b)
Fig. 3 Compressive test monitored via micro-MRI [14]. (a) Frontal section of the reference configuration in
which the sample and the loading device are shown. (b) Loading device for in-situ experiments
    In any 3D imaging technique there are artifacts related to its operating principle [117]. One
additional challenge in the medical field, which is not restricted to MRI, is associated with patient
motion during the acquisition process. Registration techniques were developed in particular to
tackle such issues [102].
2.1.3 Optical Coherence Tomography
Optical coherence tomography (or OCT) is a noninvasive imaging technique of optically semi
transparent (e.g., biological) materials at micrometer resolutions, i.e., similar to that of optical
microscopy. One of the most remarkable applications concerns ophthalmology. OCT is based on
interferometry in so-called weakly coherent (i.e., polychromatic or white) light. There are different
variants of OCT, all of them typically use Michelson interferometers [182]. Full-field OCT utilizes
a Michelson interferometer with microscope lenses placed in both arms [13, 54]. The length of the
reference arm determines the inspected sample depth with equal optical length, and the amplitude
of the coherent signal in both arms at a given location indicates the level of (single) backscattering.
To extract the amplitude of the interference signal, interferometric images are acquired by means
of a digital camera, and phase-shifted by the oscillation of the reference mirror. By computation,
an image of the coherence volume is then obtained in real time (i.e., at a typical rate of a few
Hz). The illumination system uses a halogen lamp. Because of the very wide spectrum of the
light source, interferences occur only for very small differential path length between both arms,
thus limiting the thickness of the slice with a coherent backscattering, i.e., the depth resolution.
Typically, micrometer resolution can be achieved both in plane and perpendicular to it. Increasing
the path length of the reference arm provides deeper and deeper images of the medium. Stacking
those images produces a 3D volume of the (scattering) microstructure.
    By construction, this technique is restricted to semi-transparent solids with low attenuation.
The ability to image the inner structure for scattering media makes OCT very appealing for
biological tissues. Figure 4 shows two such examples. In both cases, a 2D slice is shown with the
observation face located at the top. The first example, Figure 4(a) is a porcine eye cornea, which
constitutes a good model system for human eyes. For such a transparent medium, the technique
is very well suited and the scattering is very weak (i.e., inner structures are clearly revealed).
The second example (human breast tissue) is more delicate to image because of attenuation and
much more intense scattering. Inner micro-nodules (with about no scattering) are clearly seen.
Yet, their shape is not enough to determine their nature. Elastography may help diagnose their
possible carcinogenic character. One way to have access to such information is from imaging the
same tissue under slightly different mechanical loadings. DVC is a technique of choice to provide
the relative strains within the medium, and hence the sought elastic contrast [164].
                        (a)                                                       (b)
Fig. 4 Section view through full-field OCT for two biological samples. The top of these images is the observation
side. The width of these images is about 1 mm. (a) Porcine eye cornea revealing a lamellar collagen microstruc-
ture; (b) Human breast tissue where micro-nodules are visible. Both examples are taken from Ref. [164]
    In terms of 3D imaging characteristics, OCT has some specificities. First, standard optics may
require refraction corrections to be applied for curved objects [72]. This is important for a genuine
rendering of the microstructure. Second, images are naturally noisy because of the low level of the
coherent scattering signal as compared to the total light intensity, and because of the fast scanning
through the depth (imposed for biological samples to avoid motion, viscous creep, or the mere
time evolution of the living tissues). Further, because of multiple scattering or light absorption,
images tend to display an artifactual gradient in the depth direction (i.e., deeper is darker). The
same effect is also responsible for a “shadowing” effect whereby a scatterer will be more or less
visible depending on the medium along the optical path (this can be guessed to be responsible for
the faint vertical columnar structure in Figure 4(b)). Similarly, noise also increases with depth.
This effect can be accounted for in registration techniques (as discussed below in Section 3.1.2).
2.1.4 Other 3D imaging techniques
DVC was also applied to 3D images acquired with other modalities. Its feasibility was shown for
volumes obtained by optical slicing (or scanning) tomography [77, 78], optical rotating scanning
tomography(ORST) [155], terahertz tomography [84], confocal microscopy [148], laser-scanning
confocal microscopy (LSCM) [194], and ultrasonic imaging [24].
2.2 Ex-situ and in-situ experiments
The majority of in-situ experiments cited so far in this paper have been performed with x-ray
imaging devices (i.e., either in synchrotron facilities or lab tomographs even including medical
scanners). Therefore, the two following sub-sections will deal with x-ray imaging. Some of the
discussed features may also apply to in-situ experiments using other imaging modalities (e.g.,
MRI [14]). However, they will not be reviewed hereafter. Conversely, MRI will prevent the use of
magnetic materials in the design of the loading frame, as opposed to x-ray imaging, provided it
does not intersect the beam. Figure 3(b) shows the mini-compression stage that was built from
glass fiber reinforced PEEK (polyethyletherketone) to be MRI-compatible.
2.2.1 Ex-situ imaging
Ex-situ imaging is the easiest and most natural way of analyzing mechanical tests. It requires
imaging to be performed at different loading steps. However, if some mechanical load is applied
it has to be removed and it may change some of the studied phenomena (e.g., cracks may close
when damage is investigated). Conversely, permanent changes, such as plasticity or densification,
do not significantly change upon unloading the sample. For some materials (e.g., sand), the fact
that the specimen was unloaded to be x-rayed ex-situ did not change the sought information (e.g.,
density maps [41]) provided it is held in a constant hydrostatic confinement. Tomodensitometric
measurements allowed Desrues et al. [50] to study the complex pattern of localization bands in
the bulk of sand samples as early as in 1996.
    In some other cases, the load is not necessarily of mechanical origin. For instance, cracking
induced by accelerated desiccation of concrete-like material could be studied via ex-situ imaging
even though the climatic chamber was located next to the beamline. In such cases, it is worth
remembering that large rotations may occur because of repositioning issues [232] and consequently
consistent strain descriptors may be considered even though the strain levels themselves remain
low [101]. This observation also applies to in-situ tests [14].
    The following example is devoted to the analysis of accelerated desiccation [101]. The model
material was made of 35 vol.% of glass beads (2 mm in diameter) included in a cement paste
(cement CEM II/B 32,5R; water/cement ratio equal to 0.5). The analyzed sample was a cylinder
(diameter: 8 mm, height: 20 mm) cored from a larger parallelepiped (volume: 40 × 40 × 160 mm3 ),
which was cured in water at 20°C for 6 months. Prior to the initial scan, the specimen was preserved
from desiccation. The sample was then dried for 23 hours at 60°C and scanned again. This ex-situ
experiment was performed on beamline BM05 of the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility
(ESRF, Grenoble, France) using a monochromatic beam with an energy of 30 keV. 900 radiographs
were acquired at equally spaced angles between 0° and 180° using the FRELON CCD camera.
The resulting radiographs, whose definition is 2048 × 2048 pixels, were used to reconstruct, via
an in-house filtered back-projection algorithm [61], 3D images whose final voxel size is 10.2 μm.
    DVC analyses were conducted with 4-noded tetrahedra (i.e., T4-DVC [93]). The measurement
mesh was adapted to the cylindrical geometry of the sample. The external radius of the region
of interest is equal to 305 voxels, and the height is equal to 260 voxels (i.e., the analyzed volume
contains 76 million voxels). The advantage of such elements is that the actual geometry can be
faithfully meshed with 19,494 T4 elements (Figure 5). The characteristic element size, which is
defined as the cubic root of the average number of voxels per element, is equal to 16 voxels. The
spatial displacement resolution, which is defined as the cubic root of the mean number of voxels
considered for the nodal displacement measurement, is equal to 27 voxels.
Fig. 5 Cylindrical region of interest and corresponding mesh of T4 elements.
    A Matlab implementation was used to run the following analyses. Optimized C++ kernels [121]
computed all the data needed to perform DVC. Binary MEX files were then generated and called
in the Matlab environment. The DVC computation was run on a workstation with an 8-core Intel
Xeon E5-2650v2 (2.6 GHz and 32 Go of memory). It took less than 2 minutes for the DVC code
to converge (i.e., the norm of displacement corrections is then 10−4 voxel). Figure 6(a) shows
a 3D rendering of gray level residuals. The latter ones correspond to the gray level difference
between the volume in the reference configuration and the volume of the deformed configuration,
which was corrected by the measured displacement field. The high gray levels corresponded to the
various cracks induced by accelerated desiccation. These residuals are very useful when checking
the consistency of a DVC analysis. In the present case, the registration was successful except at the
exact location of the cracks because displacement continuity was assumed. The only information
left in the thresholded residuals was the cracks (Figure 6(b)). It was concluded that two damage
mechanisms operate, namely, inclusion/matrix debonding and matrix cracking.
                         (a)                                                 (b)
Fig. 6 (a) 3D rendering of the gray level residuals. (b) Thresholded residuals highlighting the two damage
mechanisms of the cementitious matrix reinforced by glass beads
2.2.2 In-situ tests
In the vast majority of cited works, in-situ experiments were conducted. In that case, the sample
is imaged when the load is applied. This required for the design of specific testing machines.
One key aspect is related to the fact that both tomography and laminography use a set of pro-
jections equally spaced, thus all angular positions should be accessible without any part of the
testing machine obscuring the x-ray beam. This has led to the use of external tubes as frames
of the testing machine [26]. In that case the whole testing machine is mounted on the turntable.
Figure 7(a) shows one of the first in-situ testing machines that was used on beamline ID19 at
the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble (France). It was used to study
different damage mechanisms in the bulk of an Al/SiC composite [27].
    More recently, commercial systems have been designed in which the testing machine allows
the loaded sample to be rotated under load without using the turntable of the tomograph. One
natural solution is to have two rotational actuators that allow torsion to be applied and to per-
form tomographic acquisitions, in addition to a longitudinal actuator (Figure 7(b)). Again, one
limitation is related to the minimum distance between the testing machine and the (divergent)
x-ray source. Resolutions as low as ≈ 6 μm can be achieved in LMT’s tomograph.
                                    (a)                              (b)
Fig. 7 Example of testing machines for in-situ tests. (a) Tension/compression testing machine on a synchrotron
beamline [27]. (b) Tension/torsion/compression testing machine for a lab tomograph
    One way of validating such new testing machines is to check whether 3D reconstructions can
be performed at full load capacity. Figure 8 shows a 3D rendering of an indentation test on
two half-cylinders 35 mm in diameter made of granite when loaded at 20 kN. During the 360°
rotation, the force had fluctuations less than 5 % the maximum level, which did not jeopardize
the reconstruction. The quality of the latter was identical to that observed without any applied
load for a physical voxel size of 20 μm. One scan lasted 1 h when 1,000 radiographs were acquired
(beam tension: 210 kV, electron current: 100 μA). Cracks are observed in the lower half-cylinder.
Fig. 8 3D rendering of indentation test on granite samples
    Very recently, nanotomography was used to image mechanical tests in lab tomographs or
synchrotron facilities. In particular, ex-situ [161] and in-situ [177] indentation tests were analyzed.
For the last case, one key challenge was associated with the design of a nanomechanical test stage
that could be integrated into x-ray nanotomographs.
    As previously discussed, even though x-ray tomography is the most utilized 3D imaging pro-
cedure, it is also possible to image sheet-like samples via laminography. Consequently, the loading
device becomes larger in comparison with tomography (Figure 7(a)). Figure 9(a) shows a testing
machine that is fitted on the turntable to perform synchrotron laminography at the European
Synchrotron Radiation Facility (ESRF) in Grenoble, France. The distance of the sample center
point and the detector is ≈ 130 mm, which is compatible with micrometer resolutions thanks to
the availability of parallel x-ray beams. In order to perform nanolaminography lightweight testing
machines are needed (i.e., the whole experimental setup weighs less than 50 g). It is was shown
that good quality reconstructions were obtained for an in-situ tearing test when the physical size
of one voxel was equal to 100 nm. The subsequent feasibility of DVC analyses was also proven.
This study was crucial to understand the development of plasticity and damage in an aluminum
alloy [28].
Fig. 9 Example of testing machine for in-situ tests in synchrotron laminography on beamline ID15 of ESRF.
The zoomed section shows the testing stage. The central part of the sample is shown on the screen
    With the development of in-situ tests, one challenge is related to the fact that most of the
3D imaging techniques mentioned above require acquisition times that are not compatible with
uninterrupted experiments. At various stages of the test, the sample can still be loaded, provided it
is motionless with respect to the turntable during the whole scanning duration. Such limitations
are gradually pushed back via two complementary solutions to achieve time-resolved (or 4D)
tomography [33, 65, 143, 178, 213]:
 – On third generation synchrotron, the x-ray beams are very energetic and may even be “pink”
    (i.e., with a finite band of wavelength to further intensify the beam, and thus tomography
    may not require very long exposure times). Consequently, the use of high speed digital cameras
    offers the possibility to perform full scans at frequencies as high as 20 Hz. To achieve such
    levels, the sample and its loading frame have to be spun continuously at high rotation speed,
    thereby possibly degrading the reconstruction quality when standard algorithms are used [143].
 – Soft routes [213] can also be devised by combining DVC analyses and image reconstruction pro-
    cedures. Under these conditions, the reference scan is performed when the sample is unloaded
    (or very modestly preloaded), and then radiographs are acquired on the fly without any inter-
    ruption of the test [110]. In such situations, Projection-based DVC (P-DVC) is utilized [124].
    The spirit of this technique will be presented in Section 5.6.
 – Both previous cases may be combined to enable the tests to be run even faster without
    degrading the overall quality of the measured displacements and the reconstructed volumes.
3 From local to integrated DVC
To measure bulk displacement fields, there are two classes of registration techniques, namely,
feature (or particle) tracking (which produces sparse sets of correspondences) and correlation
procedures (which produce dense sets of correspondences). In the following, feature tracking (e.g.,
see Refs. [217, 116, 216, 62, 146]) will not be reviewed. The discussion will focus on different variants
of DVC in which mechanical information is gradually included.
    In experimental fluid mechanics, a sister technique is referred to as tomographic particle image
velocimetry (or tomo-PIV) when dealing with the measurement of 3D velocity fields via correla-
tion techniques [57, 203]. In the medical field (and applied mathematics), such technique is called
“image registration” and appeared earlier [228, 141, 102] than in experimental mechanics [12, 207].
One reason of this delay may come from the needed resolution for the technique to be useful,
which varies with the field of application. In medical imaging an uncertainty of about one voxel is
generally considered as acceptable, whereas in mechanical testing, at least some 10−1 voxel-size
uncertainty on displacements (or better) is needed to estimate meaningfully commonly encoun-
tered strains. This difference in ambition for medical applications, materials science or mechanics
of materials may thus have required a technique that had matured within the domain of medical
imaging confronted with other issues than accuracy. However, it is also noteworthy that cross-
references are scarce, so that it is also plausible that these techniques emerged independently and
progressed with their own specificities as called for by applications.
    It is also interesting to note that the same distinction has been made in both fields between so-
called local and global approaches [228, 197]. Local approaches to DVC [12, 207] consist of dividing
the region of interest into small volumes (hereafter referred to as subvolumes). The registration
is performed independently on each subvolume. Conversely, in global approaches [228, 197] the
registration is performed over the whole region of interest (ROI).
3.1 Overall presentation of DVC
The two 3D images to be registered are denoted as f (x) (assumed here to be the “reference”
image) and g(x) (the “deformed” image), where f and g are scalar gray levels at each voxel
location x. Fundamentally, DVC rests on the basic assumption that upon a mere change in the
position of voxels, defined by a displacement field u(x), the two images can be brought to perfect
coincidence such that
                                          g(x + u(x)) = f (x)                                     (1)
Although this equation appears as trivial, a number of common issues can be mentioned that
motivated different variants in the past:
 1. Images are strictly defined only at integer voxel positions. However, in practice u may assume
    arbitrary values, and hence it is essential (and this becomes really critical when subvoxel
    resolutions are aimed for) to provide an estimate of the gray level at an arbitrary position.
 2. Images are naturally discrete, not only from the voxel structure, but also from the encoding of
    gray levels. This argument is not very stringent for computed tomography where gray levels
    are computed, and hence the gray level discretization of the starting images (radiographs)
    is largely erased. However, in other cases, or when the contrast is poor, a modest gray level
    dynamic range may reveal limiting.
 3. Images are noisy. Even when no motion is expected between two images of the same scene
    acquired consecutively and with the same device, i.e., u(x) = 0, f and g are different. Their
    difference η(x) ≡ g(x)−f (x) is at best (i.e., excluding the case of spurious changes of intensity
    or motion) the sum of the noise affecting g (often assumed to be statistically similar to that
    of f ) and −f .
    These three items imply that Equation (1) even with the exact displacement is not strictly
satisfied. In fact interpolation and discretization errors are both expected to be of zero mean, and
hence they can be included in what is called (effective) noise. Thus, rather than trying to exploit
the above identity voxel-wise, it is important to assess how good (or bad!) the registration is.
In fact the natural answer is the following: assuming that the exact answer for u is known, how
credible is it to measure locally a gray level f on one voxel, and to estimate (via interpolation)
geu at the same position, after displacement correction
                                         geu (x) = g(x + u(x))                                       (2)
This is assessed with a suited similarity measure S(f, geu ). For any displacement field u, one may
construct a corrected image geu , and thus a cost function (see Section 3.1.2)
                                           TDVC [u] = S(f, geu )                                     (3)
The solution of DVC is given by the displacement field, i.e., the argument that minimizes the
above cost function. This can be seen as defining a tolerance to the deviation between the above
estimates. f and geu are allowed to differ by a gray level difference that is compatible with what
is known from the noise statistical characteristics. It is also noteworthy that when noise has a
specific spatial correlation this similarity measure is intrinsically nonlocal. This is also the reason
why after a DVC analysis, it is very important to examine carefully the so-called residual field
                                         ρ(x) = geu (x) − f (x) ,                                    (4)
because even if overall characteristics such as the global variance may be compatible with noise,
faint correlations can be easily visualized and detected to signal a violation of the DVC hypotheses
(to be interpreted as being acceptable or requiring an enhanced model). In order to ease notations
in the following, the subscript to ge will be omitted.
    Considering that Equation (1) is now endowed with some tolerance, the determination of the
displacement field u(x) is an ill-posed problem. This constitutes the major difficulty of DVC. In
order to make the problem well-posed, constraints are to be added to the displacement field, u.
Namely, rather than leaving the displacement vectors free to vary arbitrarily from one voxel to its
neighbors, displacements may be sought in a restricted space, U, and it is only within this space
that the image similarity is to be optimized. Specifying some of these spaces will naturally lead us
to distinguish local and global approaches. Restriction to a subspace of displacement field can be
interpreted as a (strong) regularization, and tuning the dimensionality of this subspace will allow
the conditioning of the problem to be adjusted, and in turn the robustness of the displacement
field measurement with respect to noise.
    Another route for making the problem well-posed, is to opt for a weak regularization. This
approach consists of introducing two displacement spaces U1 ⊂ U2 , such that the displacement
field is allowed to explore the space with a higher dimensionality, U2 , although the more restricted
space U1 is expected to be more likely. To express this choice, another functional for the trial
displacement field TReg [u] is introduced, which is a penalty given to the candidate u when it does
not belong to the preferred subspace. This penalty is usually chosen as a function of the distance
between u and its projection Π1 [u] onto U1
                                      TReg [u] = φ (ku − Π1 [u]k)                                 (5)
Tikhonov regularization [215] is such a weak regularization. For DVC, it will be shown that some
specific forms of regularization are very well suited, thereby allowing for a smooth continuation
of DVC to mechanical identification of a constitutive behavior.
    It is important to note that such a regularization may be considered from different standpoints.
If some information about the mechanical behavior is known, it is natural to use it in the above
term, and a large weight is adequate. However, when the constitutive law is unknown, the above
regularization may be seen as selecting the equivalent of “shape functions.” Hence the subspace
U1 is to be compared with that obtained from, say, a finite element discretization. This may be
convenient, even if it is not meant to be realistic at the scale of elements. In the following, it will be
shown that U1 may be the kernel of a differential operator, meaning that locally the shape function
obeys a specific differential equation. Interestingly, depending on how much the regularization is
trusted, from a neutral shape function generator up to a reliable mechanical description, one may
continuously tune the weight of the above functional.
    Last, it is natural to wonder about the possibility of being misled by the “nice-looking” aspects
of the obtained solution, by the use of regularization. For this reason, the following presentation
will emphasize the use of gray level residual fields that measure very accurately (i.e., voxelwise)
the relevance of the proposed solution. Hence if a regularization property is forced illegitimately
on the displacement field, then the residual field will very clearly show that the proposed solution
is not suitable. One cannot overemphasize the usefulness of such residuals.
3.1.1 Gray level interpolation
The question of gray-level interpolation is not specific to 3D images, and for Digital Image Cor-
relation, with 2D images, this question has been very thoroughly studied [212]. Because pixels
and voxels can be seen as integrating a fine scale information over an elementary square or cube,
it is natural to consider the gray level as resulting from a convolution of an intrinsic fine scale
texture by an elementary d-dimensional rectangular window function w(x) (valued one if the ab-
solute value of all coordinates are less than 1/2, and 0 otherwise). Such a function enhances the
regularity of the original signal.
    For instance, starting from discrete spikes (i.e., Dirac comb) centered at voxel centers, this
convolution provides a piecewise (i.e., voxelwise) constant function. Starting from a voxelwise
constant function, its convolution would be a continuous one, piecewise linear along lines parallel
to axes. More generally, if the original fine scale texture is C n (derivatives up to order n exist and
are continuous), its convolution by w(x) is C n+1 . Exploitation of this line of thought has led to the
powerful concept of spline functions, that provide an elegant way of generating an interpolation
function with a prescribed position at integer coordinates, with a tunable smoothness [205]. Cubic
splines are very popular, because of their good trade-off between smoothness (resulting interpo-
lation is C 2 ) and compact support leading to efficient implementations. The limit of an infinite
order spline interpolation is an interesting and appealing object as it produces a C ∞ interpolation
function. It can be shown theoretically that this coincides with the convolution with a cardinal
sine function, and hence it would match precisely what is implicitly performed with a Fourier
transform (where translation is obtained by simple phase shift on the Fourier transform [36]).
    It is unfortunately difficult to go much further from the theoretical side, as the starting point
is the fine scale reality that is unknown. From experience, a piecewise linear interpolation (which
is a first order spline interpolation), is cheap and easy but does not lead to a high fidelity. Cubic
(and even quintic) splines have been observed to be a better approximation (leading to smaller
interpolation errors and uncertainties) [212, 186].
    It may be observed that before achieving perfect registration, using a poorer but faster inter-
polation procedure may provide an easily accessible acceleration at no implementation cost. Once
a reasonable registration has been achieved, then very few additional iterations using the best
available interpolation procedure will provide the desired final hundredths of voxel corrections.
3.1.2 Similarity measures
It was earlier mentioned that different similarity measures have been proposed to assess regis-
tration. That is for each voxel, x, the reference gray level f (x) and that of the deformed image
corrected by a trial displacement field ge(x) are to be compared. As earlier stated, their difference
is at least (that is when the trial displacement field is the exact solution) equal to the sum of the
noise affecting each image. Thus the similarity measure implicitly involves a noise model.
    The most common model is white Gaussian noise, which states that the probability distribution
function for the noise η is
                                                              η2
                                                                
                                                 1
                                      p(η) = √       exp − 2                                        (6)
                                                2πσ          2σ
where σ is the standard deviation. Generally, a displacement field is not to be judged based on
a single voxel prediction, but rather over a zone of interest, Z. The “whiteness” of noise means
that it is uncorrelated from one voxel to any other one. As a result, the probability of observing
a residual field ρ(x) = ge(x) − f (x) is
                                             Y
                                    P [ρ] =      p(ρ(x))
                                            x∈Z                    !                                (7)
                                                     1 X
                                          ∝ exp − 2          ρ(x)2
                                                    2σ
                                                         x∈Z
Assuming that the noise variance is identical for all voxels, maximizing the likelihood P [ρ] for the
residual field, is equivalent to minimizing its cologarithm, and hence, a natural similarity measure
appears
                                                     X
                                          SSSD [ρ] =      ρ(x)2                                     (8)
                                                     x∈Z
where it is recalled that ρ(x) = g(x + u(x)) − f (x). This first measure is the sum of squared
differences that is postulated as an appropriate similarity measure [197, 171]. This observation
calls for some comments:
 – First, there is no reason to postulate an expression for S. It has to result from the properties
    of noise. In the case of uniform, Gaussian and white noise, the most appropriate measure is
    the sum of squared differences.
 – All the above qualifiers (uniform, white, Gaussian) are essential. Any violation of the above
    would call for a modified measure.
 – Let us consider full-field OCT as a practical case. The 3D image consists of a stack of 2D images
   that correspond to the scatterers assumed to be dilute in a semi-transparent medium. Thus
   for each slice at a constant depth, a uniform white Gaussian model is a fair approximation
   (which can easily be checked). However, as depth increases the noise amplitude increases.
   This is partly due to the ambient scattering produced by the medium, which limits the signal
   amplitude (however, the same bias affects both the reference and the deformed image, and
   hence its correction is not essential as long as the displacement does not involve very large
   depth z variations). The depth z also affects the noise amplitude that is expected to grow with
   it. However, it is quite easy to measure the noise variance as a function of depth, σ 2 (z). From
   the later, a modified criterion results
                                                      X ρ(x)2
                                         SOCT [ρ] =                                               (9)
                                                          σ(z)2
                                                      x∈Z
   where the fact that the residual involves two images should have led to doubling the variance,
   but because a constant multiplicative factor in S plays no role, it has been discarded from the
   above expression.
 – Often, as is the case for optics, the noise variance is a function of the gray level intensity
   itself. The brighter a voxel, the higher its absolute noise level, and as the noise amplitude
   grows sub-linearly with the intensity, its relative noise level decreases with the intensity. This
                                                           p
   is true for any Poisson (or shot) noise where σ(f ) = ς   f . However, as the number of “counts”
   increases, the distribution can be well accounted for by a Gaussian distribution. Moreover, a
   white noise assumption can still be valid, and hence only uniformity is to be questioned. In
   such cases, it is straightforward to extend the previous analysis to obtain
                                                       X ρ(x)2
                                        SPoisson [ρ] =                                           (10)
                                                           f (x)
                                                       x∈Z
   As above the constant factor of 1/(4ς 2 ) has been omitted. In such cases, as noted in Ref. [211],
   taking the Anscombe transform of the original gray levels [145] or more simply, taking the
   square root of gray levels, fˆ =      f , restores a constant variance noise affecting fˆ. Hence it
                                      p
                        √         p
   suffices to register   g onto f , using SSSD , as an appropriate similarity measure
                                              X p                    p       2
                            SAnscombe [ρ] =            g(x + u(x)) −    f (x)                     (11)
                                              x∈Z
   Note however that this transformation relies on the fact that a zero gray level (f = 0) means
   that the light intensity is 0, and hence an offset in gray levels, which is commonly used without
   questioning its relevance, is not allowed without taking it into account in the above expression.
 – If the noise is uniform and Gaussian but not white, one should measure its covariance
                                       Cov(y) = hη(x + y)η(x)ix                                   (12)
   where the dependence only on y results from the assumed statistical stationarity. The inverse
   covariance is a metric kernel A(y), defining the so-called Mahalanobis distance [140]. It is
   conveniently computed from its Fourier transform that is equal to the inverse of the Fourier
   transform of Cov(y). If F designates the Fourier transform and F−1 its inverse, then
                                                                 
                                                            1
                                       A(x) = F−1                                                 (13)
                                                        F(Cov(x))
   From this metric, the (Mahalanobis) similarity measure writes
                                                  X X
                              SMahalanobis [ρ] =           ρ(y)A(y − x)ρ(x)                       (14)
                                                  x∈Z y∈Z
   When the covariance is purely local (i.e., at the voxel level), it is to be noted that this formula
   coincides exactly with SSSD . As for the Anscombe transform, there exists a filter H, such
   that the mere quadratic difference of fˆ = H ? f and ĝ(x) = [H ? g](x + u(x)) coincides with
   SMahalanobis [ρ]. In Fourier space, this filter is the square root of F(H) = F(A)1/2 .
 – Finally, let us consider the case when the noise is uniform, white, but not Gaussian. In this
   case, it is characterized by a nontrivial probability density function (p.d.f.), p(η). Following
   the above derivation, it is observed that the absence of correlation implies that probabilities
    can be multiplied, and hence their logarithm summed, thereby providing a similarity measure
    that is still proportional to the log-likelihood, or up to a change of sign to comply with the
    above Gaussian case, the similarity measure to be minimized reads
                                                    X
                                        SnG [ρ] = −     log(p(ρ(x)))                              (15)
                                                    x∈Z
    A simple and useful application of the above result consists of having the superposition of two
    Gaussian noises. In particular, one can be a low probability one but with a broad variance, akin
    to “salt and pepper noise”. In such cases, the − log(ρ) function is no longer a mere parabola,
    but for large arguments it may open up to a cone (if one wants to preserve convexity, a very
    useful property here) or flatten out to a constant asymptote.
Let us emphasize that the above expressions are all derived from measurable properties from the
noise, and no free parameters are to be tuned.
    Yet, the list of popular similarity measures is far from being exhausted. For instance, cross-
correlation is frequently chosen since the early developments of DVC [12, 212]. Let us first note that
if the zone of interest is large, and if the displacement is uniform over the zone, the (normalized)
cross-correlation function of f and g coincides, up to a translation, with the auto-correlation
function of the reference zone of interest, but reaches its maximum at a position that is equal
to the displacement between the two zones. Moreover, the cross-correlation function is easily
                                    h        i
obtained in Fourier space as F−1 F[f ]F[g] . Thus, it offers the possibility of exploring all potential
displacements simultaneously and this for a modest cost using fast Fourier transforms [42]. Finally,
using a subvoxel interpolation of the cross-correlation, very precise localization of the maximum
can be achieved, which is implicitly based on a C ∞ interpolation of both images. Those properties
made the success of Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV) in the early days [2] during which robust
and fast methods that could be implemented easily were sought, and this technique was a well
suited answer to these needs.
     However, it is to be stressed that raw fast Fourier transform algorithms assume spatial peri-
odicity of the functions to be transformed. Thus if the two zones for f and g do not coincide, the
cross-correlation function (be it computed with FFT or not) takes into account non overlapping
edges and hence is not a satisfactory measure. This can be corrected by progressively clipping the
zone in the deformed image to the predetermined displacement, but the iterative scheme reduces
drastically the attractiveness of this similarity criterion. This correction consists of computing the
cross-correlation between f and ge rather than f and g
                                           X
                               SCC [ρ] =       g (x) − he
                                              (e         g i)(f (x) − hf i)
                                          x∈Z
                                                X
                                        = (1/2)       g (x) − f (x))2
                                                     (e                                             (16)
                                                x∈Z
                                                   X
                                          −(1/2)         g 2 i − 2he
                                                       [he         g ihf i + hf 2 i]
                                                  x∈Z
The last term in the sum does not vary with the displacement iff the statistical sampling of the
gray values allows he g 2 i and he
                                 g i not to vary much when the zone of interest is moved. In this case,
the cross-correlation function coincides with the quadratic difference.
     Second, and more importantly, there is no way to deal efficiently with a displacement field
that is not a pure and uniform translation. Even a rigid rotation cannot be represented simply in
Fourier space. Additionally, the computation load for estimating ge is much greater than computing
the above quadratic difference and its gradients.
     It is often mentioned that the cross-correlation criterion to be maximized is independent of a
possible affine transformation of gray level that would affect g but not f . This is true, however,
it is odd to express such a demand at this stage. What is meant here is that the starting point,
Equation (1), is not satisfied and should rather be written as
                                       g(x + u(x)) = (1 + a)f (x) + b                               (17)
where the brightness b and contrast a corrections have been written so that the previous case
coincides with a = b = 0. It is noteworthy that if no information is available on a and b, it
may be seen as saying that a and b are part of the noise, but they have some specificities. For
instance if they have known spatial correlations (say long wavelengths only), the above similarity
measure SMahalanobis , will lead to cancel brightness and contrast modulations over large distances
by a moving average filter (i.e., removing the effect of a and b fields), and this will be done
automatically without having to formulate the appropriate filter “manually.” The limit case of
having a spatially constant a and b is obtained by taking care of the appropriate limit (the direct
covariance function becomes somewhat undefined).
    Alternatively, it is possible to consider a and b in a similar fashion as u, as unknown parameters
to be determined to register at best the two images. This can be formulated easily as a natural
extension of the optimization of the similarity measure, leading to the joint determination of the
gray level transformation and of the displacement simultaneously [100]. One may also consider a
sequential determination, searching first for a and b at fixed displacement, and then for u using
the predetermined gray level corrections for ge, and iterating these two steps up to convergence.
With this formulation, it is straightforward to notice that a and b are given by a mere linear
regression, which consists of matching the mean value and the standard deviation of f and ge,
which is precisely what is obtained treating a and b as noise. However, let us insist on the fact
that once again, after having written Equation (17) properly, and chosen to treat a and b either
as noise or as unknowns, the appropriate similarity measure is naturally generated and leads to
the solution. Without much surprise, the same solution emerges whatever the choice is made for
the status of a and b.
    Let us also note that Equation (17) may mean that the same parameters a and b hold for the
entire image. This is not at all equivalent to treating the problem with a partition into zones, for
each of whom a and b are determined anew. The latter problem introduces much more unknowns
than the former, and hence the uncertainty attached to the determination of the displacement
(and gray level corrections) is much higher (especially for small subvolume or element sizes, see
Section 4). It may be desirable to introduce some flexibility in the gray level corrections, but in
this case again, the best way to proceed is to introduce a parameterization of the way a and b
may vary in space.
    In cases where two images may be related by more complex contrast corrections, other statis-
tical measures have been introduced. The so-called mutual information [209, 199], I(f, ge), checks
for the existence of a well defined value of ge knowing f without having to specify explicitly the
relation between the two. More precisely, the mutual information is defined as
                                                                              
                                              X                     P (f, ge)
                                   I(f, ge) =     P (f, ge) log                                          (18)
                                                                   P (f )P (e
                                                                            g)
                                              f,e
                                                g
where P (f, g) is the joint distribution function. If f and ge were unrelated then their joint distri-
bution would be equal to the product P (f )P (e       g ), and their mutual information would be 0. The
mutual information measures the “entropy reduction” brought by the knowledge of one of the two
gray levels, say f , when considering the other one. It is more transparent when noting that the
argument of the log function is nothing but the ratio of the conditional probability distribution,
   g |f ) = P (f, ge)/P (f ) and the probability of ge, P (e
P (e                                                          g ) without the knowledge of f . Interestingly,
when the joint distribution of f and ge (assuming displacement corrections have converged) is
Gaussian, it has been shown that the mutual information reduces to a function of the normalized
covariance, log(1 − Cov2 ) [118]. Thus when one quantity would be Gaussian and related to the
other one by an affine relationship, the mutual information criterion reduces to maximizing the
covariance or the cross-correlation.
    The freedom of being able to deal with an arbitrarily complex (i.e., nonlinear) relationship
has however a large cost related to sampling issues. In order to faithfully infer a joint distribution
function, a large sample size is needed and thus a local approach is inappropriate because of the
small number of voxels involved. In addition, a purely local approach would allow the nonlinear
relationship relating f and ge to differ from one zone to another, thereby further relaxing the
registration constraints. Another difficulty is that gray levels are subjected to noise, and hence
they should rather be defined as an interval of width σ (or rather a probability distribution function
(pdf) having a standard deviation σ). This is essential to compare two gray levels that are supposed
to be identical. One may wonder where this key parameter appears, since this is usually not made
explicit. In fact the statistical entropy measure involves a probability distribution that is defined
numerically with a particular binning, that should have a width σ. The strong dependence of
the entropy on this binning (or discretization) is very seldom discussed. This is a fragility of this
criterion, together with the fact that locally all spatial correlation is lost (voxels may be shuffled
spatially without consequence on the resulting entropy).
    A second weakness is the lack of “distance” or progressiveness in the joint distribution function.
When ge differs from most other gray levels in voxels having the same f value, the difference
ge − hg(f )i does not come into play, and hence no difference is made between a small or a large
violation of a potential g(f ) relationship. This in turn implies a lack of convexity of the similarity
measure, and the numerical difficulties resulting thereof, that is lack of uniqueness, and the solution
possibly depends on the type of minimization algorithm (and on possible convergence parameters
when required). Finally, it is to be stressed that cases where an arbitrary complex relationship
between f and ge are not very frequent to say the least. When it is needed to take into account
such complex correspondence, one may simply parameterize this relationship (e.g., stating that
g(f ) be a polynomial or any other nonlinear functional form) and identify the required parameters
with the least variability that is needed (e.g., not estimating a different polynomial for each zone
when a local approach is used).
3.1.3 Inter-modality registration
Among the few cases when such nonlinear correspondence may be useful, is when a different
modality (and hence a different contrast) is used for f and g and still one would like to register the
two images. One such example was studied in details [225], where x-ray and neutron tomographic
images of the same sandstone sample were captured, and a common referential was sought to fully
benefit from both modalities and their resulting contrast. The presence of elements that display
different contrasts with only one modality forbids the use of parametric relationships, yet it is
possible to design a learning scheme that is a simple extension of standard DVC, and that leads
to registration and simultaneously allows the different phases to be naturally segmented.
    Plain x-ray tomography as such delivers a scalar field (i.e., x-ray absorption) that is relative
to a specific energy for monochromatic sources as is usually the case in synchrotron beamlines,
or to an energy spectrum for lab μCT scanners. This provides a very rich information in terms of
3D spatial resolution. Yet, in some cases, it is difficult to discriminate between different phases.
Thus, very early on, the idea of combining different modalities has emerged. The main motivation
came from the field of medical imaging where the patient motion has always been a difficult
obstacle to overpass. Thus a secondary modality that could detect the phase of breathing or
cardiac rhythm allows radiographs to be acquired in situations close to steadiness in spite of
uninterrupted motions [228]. Such a case however involves a rather poor usage of the secondary
acquisition device.
    However, still in the field of medical imaging, it was realized that two 3D-imaging modalities
could be combined to get a richer information, as the physical origin of contrast in the two
modalities could differ [141]. In order to achieve full benefit from these modalities, it is essential to
be able to express them in the same reference frame. This automatically calls for image registration
as a powerful tool to put the two images in coincidence. However, for the very purpose of using
different contrasts, not to mention different resolutions or different acquisition times that could
induce slight distortions between the two modalities, it is difficult to define what a good matching
is. Reference [102] provides a review of early registration techniques that were used on the turn
of the century.
    In the field of materials science, dealing with different modalities has the potential of revealing
chemical contrast. For instance dual source x-ray tomography with a simultaneous acquisition of
the two perpendicular beams set at two different energies provide two 3D images with different
contrasts [67, 113, 180]. Yet, in that case, the two volumes are expected not to be very different,
and registration may not be extremely challenging. The association of x-ray and neutrons but
bring out much more salient differences [6].
    Specific features or markers that have a well defined signature in both modalities were first a
privileged way to find a common reference frame. This technique however refers to marker track-
ing rather than DVC. It is fair to note that when a simple mapping is sought (i.e., translation,
rotation and scale factor) and when there is no need for very accurate registration, this marker
tracking technique offers a simple solution. However, the definition and selection of the appropri-
ate markers are essentially manual and hence registration requires a significant and incompressible
time. Additionally, this technique cannot be considered as optimal in terms of an abstract con-
sideration of the usage of information that is present in the images as only a small fraction of the
image is used.
    It is worth noting that DVC (or DIC for 2D images) strictly speaking cannot be used as the
conservation of brightness, which lies at the very heart of the method, does not hold. Hence a
much more general similarity measure is to be used (see Section 3.1.2). If no more than two phases
are considered an affine transform of gray levels is sufficient, and hence a standard DVC algorithm
allowing brightness and contrast changes, enables a proper registration to be achieved. Care should
be taken to perform the gross gray level correction early enough to be consistent with a correction
scheme based on small perturbations. In more general cases, however, correspondence between
the two images has to phrased in more general terms. Even a nonlinear relationship between the
gray levels of the two modalities may be inadequate, as the same gray level of one modality may
be expressed as different gray values in the other modality.
    It is for these registrations that a similarity measure based on mutual information is suited [236,
139]. Mutual information is one choice out of many comparable measures based on joint his-
tograms, called f-information or f-divergence [226]. As earlier mentioned, the joint histogram does
not take into account the spatial correlation in the images and depends on the chosen binning of
the histogram.
    Introducing a similarity measure that is a function of the pair of gray levels on the registered
images, Φ(f (x), ge(x))2 , rather than the mere quadratic difference as used earlier, allows one to
come up with a generalized formulation of DVC. A Bayesian framework provides an interpretation
of the joint distribution and in agreement with the noise interpretation of the quadratic differ-
ence that was presented earlier, the Φ2 function can be chosen as the cologarithm of the joint
histogram. In Ref. [225], it was shown that the analytical formulation of the Newton’s descent
minimization algorithm assumes a form that is a natural extension of the incremental correction,
see Equation (24). Moreover, if Φ2 is adjusted from a previous determination of the registration,
such an approach can be seen as a learning scheme of the suited potential to be minimized.
Such an approach was shown to be successful for x-neutron tomography registration that was
performed for a Bentheim sandstone with a rather similar resolution [225]. Figure 10 shows two
complementary composite checkerboard images made of squares extracted from one modality or
the other after registration. It is seen that some morphologic features (crack or boundary) are
visible in both modalities and show an excellent continuity. Conversely, other features such as
the large white inclusion show a large attenuation with neutron imaging but appears as almost
invisible with the x-ray modality.
                            (a)                                                 (b)
Fig. 10 Complementary mosaic images showing alternating square patches cut out of the two tomographic
modalities (x-ray or neutrons) after registration. It is observed that some features (boundary, crack) show an
excellent continuity, whereas other features exhibit a very different contrast.
3.2 Kinematic basis
Let us now discuss the choice of the kinematic basis. As mentioned earlier, the choice of the space U
the displacement field belongs to is the key to provide a regularization and to make the problem
well-posed. Therefore a well suited choice will help convergence to a satisfactory measurement
result and above all it will yield small uncertainty levels [23, 196, 191, 149, 150]. Conversely, if not
well chosen, it may limit the possible performance of the algorithm and thus the quality and
reliability of the obtained measurement. In a few words: it is crucial to use the least number of
parameters to describe the displacement fields, but as this number is reduced the risk of excluding
the actual displacement from the trial space increases, and hence it may induce a model error [23,
94]. Thus it is essential to judge the quality of the obtained displacement from the residual field
ρ to check whether manifestations of unanticipated phenomena would not be visible.
    Another factor may be taken into account, namely, computation time. The manipulation of
a large quantity of data naturally leads to heavy computational load. Hence a natural idea is to
partition the images into small subvolumes and register them independently. When subvolumes
are small, it is not needed to incorporate many parameters to account for the local kinematics,
and hence one may be faced with a large number of very small sized problems, each of which
being possibly addressed in parallel (see Section 5.2). This is the spirit of the so-called “local”
approaches.
3.2.1 Local DVC
As of today, local approaches to DVC are more often used than global approaches (see all the
examples discussed in the introduction). There are several reasons, one of them being that they
were developed ten years earlier than global approaches. Local DVC was first implemented in
which the mean 3D translations per considered subvolume were evaluated [12]. The local rotations
were subsequently added in the set of measured degrees of freedom per subvolume [207]. The
method was applied for the analysis of a compression test on aluminum foam (i.e., representative
of the behavior of trabecular bone). An extension of the previous technique is to apply it to
measure the rigid body motions of grains of complex shape. It has been referred to as discrete
DVC [86, 3] and has been utilized to study strain localization in sand for which the local grain
rotations play a major role. The first order warping of subvolumes was proposed by Bornert et
al. [18] and Verhulp et al. [230]. Higher order interpolations were implemented later on [70, 130,
186]. All these improvements aim at better capturing the local kinematics arising in mechanical
tests.
    However, even if more and more parameters are used to perform the registration of subvolumes,
often only the displacement vector of the center is kept, and a final post-processing is carried out
that consists of computing an interpolated (and smoothed) displacement field based on the discrete
measurements at each subvolumes center. This last operation is performed without reference to
the analyzed images and thus is not considered here as part of the DVC computation. However,
one should note that this is a critical step for computing, say, strain fields.
    The interested reader will find many details on this technique in the first review paper on
DVC [11]. Similarly, some examples can be found in the same paper on its early use. The intro-
duction of the present paper also lists more recent applications. In order to have a fully dense
displacement evaluation (i.e., for any position within the ROI), global approaches were introduced.
The registration is therefore using all the voxels belonging to the ROI at once.
3.2.2 Global DVC
Global approaches to DVC were developed more recently. In that case, the kinematic degrees
of freedom are spatially coupled, and hence there is no way to compute parts of the problem
independently except if parallel algorithms based on domain decomposition methods are imple-
mented [176]. The latter ones have yet to be extended to global DVC. A single and hence “global”
solution has to be determined at once. This may appear as leading to very heavy computations.
However, a number of algorithmic features may be used to preprocess some computations used
several times. It then appears that the computation of ge with the current determination of the
displacement field is the most time intensive part of the computation, and hence computing time
is (today!) not a relevant argument for choosing one approach or another one.
    The first implementation of a global approach consisted of discretizing the region of interest
with 8-noded cube (C8) elements for which trilinear shape functions are chosen [197]. It is now
referred to as C8-DVC. It is to be noted that there is not a big difference between local and global
descriptions of the kinematics. The same type of intrinsic complexity may be incorporated within
one C8-element and one local cubic zone of the same shape and size [122]. However, within a global
setting, the displacement field is continuous at any location within the ROI (without resorting
to a post-processing step), and the field used for the determination is trusted for each voxel,
rather than keeping only the central displacement and discarding all other computed parameters.
Moreover, the global feature of the approach leads to the fact that neighboring elements help
each other. If one element lacks contrast but its surrounding ones are contrasted then global
DVC may still converge and succeed in determining the displacement field [156, 30, 157, 28]. Most
applications of global DVC were based upon finite element discretizations of the ROI. This is not
mandatory. For instance, spectral approaches have been implemented even more recently and, up
to now, have been only applied to synthetic cases [159].
     Most of the global DVC results have been obtained by using C8 elements [197], which is a
natural choice to make structured meshes compatible with the underlying voxels. More recently,
T4 elements have also been used [93]. One of their advantages lies in the fact that more complex
geometries can be faithfully meshed (see Figure 5). In both cases bilinear or linear shape functions
have been considered. Higher order displacement interpolations may be considered. However, it
will require the size of the elements to be increased in order to keep the uncertainty levels under
control. Since DVC analyses are an inverse problem, the general guideline is the smaller the
number of unknowns with respect to the available number of voxels, the lower the measurement
uncertainty (this observation is true for local and global DVC). However, if the number is too
small, interpolation errors may occur. The gray level residuals are the key quantity to make sure
the choices have been adequate.
     When studying cracks, the continuity property is no longer satisfied across the cracked surface.
As earlier mentioned, this violation will often be quite visible in the residual fields [192, 133, 198,
94]. This is a very nice property as it allows one to clearly see a crack that may sometimes be
difficult to detect otherwise. Segmentation may then be quite easy. Moreover, it has been proposed
to use an enriched kinematics, following X-FEM approaches (as in 2D-DIC [188]), through an
eXtended C8-DVC (or XC8-DVC) [192, 185].
    To illustrate such situations, let us consider a four-point flexural test on plasterboard. This
material is composed of a plaster foam core cast between two paper linings. It now is the most
widely used interior finish in construction. In addition to the fire resistance to be checked, a
lightweight plate must meet mechanical requirements, the most severe of which is resistance to
flexure, a crucial mechanical property for transport, handling and installation of the plate. The
studied sample was prepared from industrial plasterboard and cut to a size of 200 × 13 × 15 mm3 .
The outer span was 150 mm, and the inner span 40 mm. The supports were machined PMMA
cylinders 16 mm in diameter. The setup used in this study is shown in Figure 11(a). It enables
two specimens to be tested at the same time. The central part of the device is clear from any
obstruction in order to allow for x-ray transmission. Loading was applied manually by turning
the two wing screws.
                 (a)                            (b)                                  (c)
Fig. 11 (a) In-situ flexural testing device. The sample was imaged in the initial state (i.e., without loading, b)
and at several loading levels (the final deformed configuration is shown in c). 1 voxel ≡ 50 m μ
    The experiment was carried out on LMT’s tomograph (NSI X50+) with the following acquisi-
tion parameters: the beam tension is 90 kV and the electron current 200 μA, the physical size of
one voxel is 25 μm. 900 radiographs were acquired in a 360°-rotation for each scan. The total du-
ration of an acquisition is 60 min. The sample was imaged at initial state and then at three levels
of loading. Figure 11(b-c) shows the analyzed volumes by DVC. The ROI after voxel aggregation
has a size of 792 × 192 × 192 voxels. The physical voxel size then becomes 50 μm. No crack is
visible on the section of the volume in the deformed configuration.
    The size of the C8 elements was chosen to be equal to 12 voxels. The DVC results are shown in
Figure 12. The root mean square correlation residual for the analyzed scan is equal to 2.65 % of the
dynamic range of the reference scan. This level being virtually identical to that observed when no
crack is present validates the registration. The gray level residual field shows hardly visible traces of
cracks (Figure 12(a)) since their opening is very small (i.e., less than one voxel). Discontinuities on
the displacement fields are less visible; this is related to the effect of the continuity requirement on
the displacement fields (i.e., smoothing effect). Given the small dynamic range of the displacement
field, local fluctuations are due to measurement uncertainties. Conversely, the maximum eigen
strain field gives very clear indications of the presence of numerous cracks (Figure 12(c)). The
crack spacing is of the order of the thickness of the plate.
                 (a)                                (b)                               (c)
Fig. 12 DVC results in 4-point flexure. 3D renderings of thresholded gray level residual (a), longitudinal
                                                  μ
displacement (b) expressed in voxels (1 voxel ≡ 50 m), and maximum eigen strain fields (c)
    Let us insist on the fact that the tomographic observations alone would not allow the mecha-
nism of failure of plasterboard to be deduced from such tests. The contribution of DVC is crucial
in order to finely analyze them.
3.3 Numerical implementation
In order to detail the numerical implementation, the sum of squared differences similarity criterion
is chosen as it is the most generic one (i.e., relevant for Gaussian and white noise). Thus
                                              X
                                TDVC [u] =      (g(x + u(x)) − f (x))2                          (19)
                                              x
As previously discussed, a space of displacement field U is selected, and introducing a kinematic
basis with a set of vector fields φi (x), is chosen so that the displacement is expressed as
                                                  X
                                          u(x) =      ui φi (x)                                 (20)
                                                   i
Let us note that such a writing holds for both local and global methods. Local would simply mean
that some functions φi and φj have a non overlapping support when i 6= j. With those notations,
DVC consists of measuring all amplitudes ui that may be gathered into a (long) column vector
of unknowns denoted {u}.
    The minimization of TDVC is performed using Newton’s descent scheme. The problem being
nonlinear, it is solved iteratively, by computing incremental corrections {δu} to the current es-
timate at step n, {u}(n) , so that {u}(n+1) = {u}(n) + {δu}. The correction is computed from
the osculating quadratic form that approximates TDVC . The following linear system is thus to be
solved
                                             [M]{δu} = {b}                                      (21)
where the matrix [M ] is the Hessian of TDVC , which can be computed once for all at conver-
gence [197, 170], i.e., replacing geu by f
                                      X
                              Mij =       (∇f (x) · φi (x))(∇f (x) · φj (x))                    (22)
                                       x
and the right hand side vector is computed (and this is critical) without approximation
                                     X
                                bi =     (∇f (x) · φi (x))(e
                                                           gu (x) − f (x))                      (23)
                                      x
The pseudo-inverse of Ni (x) = (∇f (x) · φi (x)) is recognized, so that [M ] = [N ]> [N ], {b} =
[N ]> {ρ}, and one may also write
                                     {δu} = [M ]−1 {b} = [N ]† {ρ}                              (24)
where the notation [N ]† ≡ ([N ]> [N ])−1 [N ]> stands for the so-called Moore-Penrose pseudo-
inverse matrix [154, 179].
    There is a huge diversity of issues associated with nonlinearities. For DVC, they are not too
limiting. The approximation of the objective functional by its osculating paraboloid (i.e., using
the Hessian at convergence) is generally an excellent choice. Yet there are two pitfalls to avoid.
The first one is the existence of poorly conditioned modes when too many kinematic degrees
of freedom are proposed as compared to the available information. Typically, when very small
subvolumes, or very small elements are considered, the ratio of the to-be-measured parameters
to the given information becomes too large, eigen-modes of the [M ] matrix appear with very
small eigen values. Here the solution is to be less ambitious for the spatial resolution, and/or
to provide additional prior knowledge [123, 122]. This is the spirit of regularization that will be
detailed further down.
    The second pitfall is that the above osculating harmonic potential is a good approximation
only within a range of variation of the displacement that can be compared to the correlation
length of the image texture. This means that when u is close to the actual solution, say because
it has been well initialized, it will easily converge to the correct solution. In contrast, for very
poor initial guesses, i.e., very remote from the actual one, the above Newton’s algorithm may not
converge.
    The previous observation applies to both local and global approaches. Finding suitable starting
points for the final optimization step is critical, and all usable codes spend considerable effort on
this. One of the easiest ways to circumvent this problem is to devise multiscale approaches [197,
97, 60, 45]. If the (reference and deformed) images are low-pass filtered prior to registration, local
minima are erased with the wavelength of the filter around the solution. This naturally provides a
much more robust approach. However, because images are low-passed filtered, the registration is
not very precise. Understanding that this filtering is only a temporary operation provided to get an
approximate solution to start with, then the solution is to built up a pyramid of progressively more
and more filtered images, which can conveniently be down-sampled to reduce the computation
load, and start registration from the top of the pyramid, and use the resulting displacement field
as an initialization of the lower level, down to the original image in which no filtering is being
used [98, 245, 16, 187, 80].
    As detailed below, regularization will provide an additional functional TReg to be added to
TDVC . The numerical strategy to solve the regularized problem will be essentially the same as
above. A new Hessian and second member will be computed and added to the above [M ] and {b},
so as to estimate the displacement field. The regularized Hessian is aimed at obtaining a better
conditioning, and thereby decreasing the uncertainty, as will be shown in the next section.
3.4 Identification and Validation
In the above discussions, the kinematic bases were chosen mostly based on numerical convenience.
However, little consideration was paid to the relevance of a particular basis. To do so, it is necessary
to incorporate some additional information coming from the mechanical behavior of the sample.
Thus prior to discussing more elaborate regularization strategies, a short review of the usage of
DVC-measured displacement fields in the context of mechanical identification is proposed.
    Comparisons between DVC measurements and FE calculations have been first attempted for
cancellous bone to validate the strain predictions of the numerical model [242]. A good agreement
was observed in the loading direction, yet less accuracy was achieved in the transverse directions.
It may be hypothesized that parameters affecting the accuracy may include lateral boundary con-
ditions. It was confirmed for a scaffold implant under uniaxial compression for which the measured
boundary conditions were applied to each boundary of the region of interest. Good agreements
between the results from the DVC measurements and the FE simulations were obtained in the
primary loading direction as well as in the lateral directions [137].
    It is worth noting that experimental boundary conditions are very important inasmuch as
one cannot guarantee that a mechanical test be always perfect (in particular for in-situ test-
ing where the rigidity of testing devices is often a limitation, see Section 2). This is especially
true in biomechanics where the specimen shape is not chosen but given [106]. For instance, the
failure mechanisms may change when intervertebral disks are present or not. Further, when exper-
imentally measured boundary conditions are utilized in FE simulations, the displacement errors
between DVC-measured fields and computed fields via FE simulations were the lowest [108]. This
trend was also recently confirmed in the study of cancellous bone [37] and the analysis of vertebral
failure patterns [108]. Further, micromotions captured by DVC were shown to be consistent with
FE simulations of implants [210]. Damage in bone-cement interfaces was assessed via DVC and
consistently compared with FE simulations [221].
    Validation frameworks based on 3D (and 4D) imaging have been proposed [160, 29, 37]. One
key aspect is related to the management of boundary conditions [78, 185, 206], as discussed above
for biomechanical studies. If measured boundary conditions are used, it is possible to evaluate gray
level residuals from simulated displacement fields and estimate the absolute quality of numerical
models [29]. Otherwise, only relative qualities are obtained when measured displacements are com-
pared with computed fields. With such approaches, ductile damage predictions could be probed
for different experimental configurations with cast iron and partial validations were achieved with
microscale FE simulations [29, 206].
    Extended FE simulations were validated against experimentally measured displacement fields
via extended DVC by comparing measured and predicted profiles of stress intensity factors [185,
189]. Crack opening displacements measured via DVC were compared to predictions by FE analy-
ses for a test with a chevron notched sample made of polygranular graphite to validate a cohesive
zone model [160]. Similar analyses were reported for a woven ceramic matrix composite [202].
Phase field simulations were validated against experiments through the comparison of crack pat-
terns in lightweight concrete and plaster [166].
    Very few parameter calibrations have been reported so far when dealing with DVC measure-
ments and FE simulations. Among them, the virtual fields method was used to calibrate elastic
parameters for cornea [73], trabecular bone [79] and 3D particulate composite [184]. Finite ele-
ment model updating was used to calibrate plastic parameters when Al-SiC composite and cast
magnesium alloy were indented in-situ [162]. Such parameters were also calibrated for nodular
graphite cast iron when cyclically loaded in uniaxial tension [93]. The criterion describing the
transition from pristine to compacted (i.e., crushed) states was determined by analyzing in-situ
indentation tests on plaster foam [21].
3.5 Regularized DVC
In registration techniques applied to medical imaging, regularization techniques have been con-
sidered very early on. They all derive from Tikhonov-like propositions [215] to account for various
constraints by adding a penalty term to the DVC cost function [199, 102, 195, 115]. In experimental
mechanics such type of approaches were introduced more recently [123, 122, 214] extending elastic
regularization initially introduced in 2D-DIC [190, 218]. The regularization strategy allows the
DVC problem to be made well-posed even when discretized onto a very fine mesh. It was shown
that the ultimate limit of a regular cubic mesh with elements reduced to a single voxel could
be handled with such a strategy [123]. However, in that case, the number of unknowns becomes
very large, and the regularization kernel involves a more complex problem to solve, and hence
regularized DVC becomes much more demanding in terms of computation time and memory
management. To overcome this difficulty, a dedicated GPU implementation has been set up that
can handle several million degrees of freedom problems within an acceptable time (less than 10
minutes) [122]. When analyzing localized phenomena (e.g., strain localization and cracks), special
care should be exercised to properly capture high local strain gradients [214] or displacement
discontinuities [94, 119]. It will be illustrated in Section 3.5.4.
3.5.1 Regularization functional
When designing the penalty term, two questions have to be addressed: What should the penalty
be based on in order not to bias the measurement? How should its weight be set?
    The very early suggestions by Tikhonov and Arsenin [215] were to add to the DVC functional
a term such as kuk2 =            |u(x)|2 . This choice is here not appropriate as it tends to drag
                             P
                               x
displacements toward u = 0, especially in zones where the image texture is poor. Introducing the
                                                             |L(u)|2 , where L(u) = ∇ ⊗ u instead of
                                                        P
norm of a differential operator such as TReg [u] =         x
the raw displacement, would be a better choice as uniform translations would not be affected as
they belong to the kernel of the gradient operator. However, rigid body rotations have a nonzero
gradient and hence they would be dampened out by such regularization. Requiring that all rigid
body motions belong to the kernel of L(u), selects automatically linear functions of strain. Hence
|L(u)|2 coincides with the potential energy density of a linearly elastic solid. Such a form may be
suited when observing a solid that is not subjected to a mechanical loading, but for mechanical
tests, such a regularization would drive the solution toward a rest state.
    Following along these lines leads to a second order differential operator for L, which can be
compared to the divergence of the stress field for a linear elastic solid. When a finite element
description is used for the displacement field, i.e., supported by a mesh, one may rely on the
numerical model of elasticity to relate the L operator to the finite element stiffness matrix [K].
In the absence of body forces, this matrix applied to the vector of nodal displacement provides
a vector of unbalanced forces at nodes {f } = [K]{u}. Choosing as penalty the quadratic norm
of the vector {f } (restricted to internal nodes) gives precisely what is needed as a Tikhonov
regularization functional, the kernel of which contains all displacement fields that are solution to
a linear elastic problem [123, 122]. This means that a zone where the texture is poor or simply
missing, would be interpolated as the solution to an elastic problem matching the displacement
at the boundaries where it is known. This is in line with the “regularization” property of this
additional functional, which is to alleviate ill-conditioning by adding prior knowledge on the
displacement field.
    It is to be observed that linear elasticity involves several parameters that can be tailored to
a situation at play [123, 122, 214, 94]. If the actual behavior of the sample is elastic, one would
like to use a regularization kernel as close as possible to the actual constitutive law. However,
sometimes, one may want to depart from the real behavior. For instance, for developed plastic
flows, one may neglect elastic strains, and hence the elastic kernel to be used for regularization
should mimic plastic strain. For instance, plastic strains are generally isochoric, and hence one
may choose an incompressible elastic law to prevent any volume change [214]. More generally,
the tangent behavior is a good candidate for identifying the proper elastic law to be used. When
approaching a perfectly plastic plateau, there exists a strain direction where the elastic stiffness
vanishes. This calls for an anisotropic elastic kernel that would leave free the easy strain direction
but would penalize shear in a different direction.
3.5.2 Regularization weight
The second question to be answered deals with the weight to be given to the regularization kernel.
Different heuristics have been proposed in the literature [58]. However, it is difficult to assess how
relevant they would be for the present purposes. Here it is proposed to follow a different route
that gives a simple interpretation to this weight.
    For any trial displacement field, u, the similarity measure of DVC provides a cost function,
TDVC [u]. In the immediate vicinity of the optimal solution, u∗ , one may Taylor expand the
functional TDVC [u∗ + δu] for a small perturbation, δu, as
                              TDVC [u∗ + δu] = S(f, feδu )
                                               = S(f, f + ∇f · δu)                                 (25)
                                               = S0 + S2 [δu] + O[δu4 ]
where S0 is a constant (which can be neglected in the minimization), and S2 is a quadratic form
in δu whose kernel is the Hessian of TDVC , denoted as [M ] in Equation (22). The linear term
in δu is absent as a result of S being minimum. It is to be noted that in the above equation,
the second argument of S has been changed to f because geu∗ ≈ f . S2 is thus the osculating har-
monic approximation of the nonlinear DVC functional. Using the notation {u} for the discretized
displacement field represented as a column vector of nodal displacements, S2 reads
                                       S2 [{u}] = {u}> [M]{u}                                      (26)
    Similarly, the regularization functional using linear elasticity is a quadratic form of the dis-
placement field. Within a finite element discretization where [K] is the elastic stiffness matrix,
one can write
                                 TReg [{u}] = {u}> [K]> [D][K]{u}                                  (27)
where [D] is a diagonal matrix valued 1 for internal nodes (where the balance equation holds)
and 0 on boundary nodes (where a displacement or nonzero load is prescribed).
     Let us now consider as a trial displacement field a plane wave, vλ (x) = e1 exp(ie2 · x/λ) with
a wavevector along e2 , a unitary vector, with displacements parallel to e1 (chosen perpendicular
to e2 so that the strain is pure shear), and 2πλ the wavelength. When the wavelength is varied,
on average the quadratic form S2 remains constant. Conversely, TReg [vλ ] is proportional to the
inverse fourth power of λ. This exponent 4 defines the “spectral sensitivity” of the regularization
term, as compared to 0 for the DVC problem. This comes from the fact that [K] is the discrete
form of a second order differential operator acting on the displacement field. This difference in
sensitivity requiring an intrinsic length is now exploited to write a full cost function as
                                        (TDVC [{u}] − S0 )     ξ 4 TReg [{u}]
                           TTot [{u}] =                      + 4                                   (28)
                                             S2 [{vλ }]        λ TReg [{vλ }]
Let us note that the weight of the regularization part is set by a free parameter, ξ, whose meaning
becomes transparent. The relative magnitude of the two terms in the above sum depends on
the length scale over which the displacement field varies. When this scale is larger than ξ the
DVC functional dominates over the regularization part, and conversely, shorter length scales are
controlled by the regularization part. Thus the above expression has a minimizer that is a low-pass
filtered DVC displacement field, and tuning ξ allows one to adjust the cut-off frequency.
     In order to better appreciate the usefulness of this formulation, it is worth making the following
remarks:
  – Any discretization involves a cut-off length scale, namely, the subvolumes size in local DVC,
     or the element size in unregularized global DVC, but in those approaches the small-scale
     shape functions are not designed to be mechanically realistic but rather convenient, either for
     parallel computation or for benefitting from all meshing tools available. In contrast, the above
     regularization uses a much more realistic small-scale displacement interpolation;
 – Provided the regularization length is larger than the element size, the influence of the mesh
   (and its fineness) is reduced to a minimum;
 – Changing the regularization length is trivially performed without having to re-mesh. It is
   noteworthy that for slender objects or regions of interest, one may introduce a regularization
   length that is larger than the smallest size of the sample/ROI. Such a property is not available
   using a regularization based on the window size or element size in the mesh;
 – It has been shown that using the ultimate regular mesh composed of 1 × 1 × 1 voxel cubes
   could be handled with such a regularization, with a weight that could be decreased down to
   very few (i.e., 3.3) voxels [123];
 – Edges (which are not free boundaries) are not regularized by the above construction. They
   cannot be considered as balanced nodes because the outer region exerts unknown forces /
   torques on the studied domain. It is however possible to construct linear operators acting on
   the boundary nodal displacements that behave in the same way (invariant under a rigid body
   motion, and are the discrete version of a second order differential operator [123, 214]). This
   regularization introduces a similar tunable smoothness as the bulk regularization, although
   the mechanical justification is more fragile. However, it remains exactly within the spirit of a
   mathematical regularization for ill-conditioned problems;
 – The tunable length scale is convenient to capture a first rough approximation of the displace-
   ment field (i.e., using a large regularization length scale), and progressively relaxing ξ to a
   small value. As shown in 2D analyses [218], even in the limit of a vanishing ξ, such an initializa-
   tion procedure may provide better solutions than that obtained with the same discretization
   but without regularization [29].
 – Although this regularization is a filter, it should not be confused with a filtering performed
   in a post-processing stage. The former is applied together with the registration procedure,
   and hence the filtered field is evaluated on its registration quality, while the latter has lost
    its connection with the images, and hence the detrimental effect of filtering on registration
    cannot be estimated.
    If the linear elastic problem used for the regularization is not trusted, then a small regu-
larization length scale is to be chosen, and regularization will only provide an effective “shape
function” with nicer regularity properties than standard finite elements. Alternatively, if identifi-
cation is aimed at, then ideally an infinite regularization length scale will leave enough freedom to
account for arbitrary boundary conditions, and this without negative incidence on the value of the
residual. Conversely, a wrong constitutive law will lead to higher residuals and hence minimizing
the residuals (as usually carried out in DVC) with respect to the constitutive parameters is an
identification procedure (i.e., “integrated” if the regularization length is infinite).
3.5.3 Extension to nonlinear regularization
The above regularization was set to the simplest form that could be introduced without interfer-
ence with naturally expected displacements. Thus the lowest order linear differential operator was
selected. It was very recently extended to hyperelasticity (i.e., in a finite strain framework [76]),
and applied to cardiac magnetic resonance images. However, there is no first principle argument
that would prevent from using any more sophisticated nonlinear laws. In the field of applied math-
ematics, other nonlinear regularizations have been proposed [58]. For instance, rather than using
an L2 -norm of the unknown field or of a differential operator acting on it, other norms have been
proposed such as Lp
                                                Z             2/p
                                    TpReg [u] =     |L(u)|p dx                                   (29)
When L is the symmetric part of the gradient, and p = 2 this form looks like an elastic energy
density. When p tends to 1, the (nonlinear elastic) behavior would look like perfect plasticity.
When p is less than 1, a softening branch develops implying loss of convexity. In fact convexity
(p ≥ 1) is a very convenient property that ensures the existence of a unique minimum and hence
an independence with respect to the algorithm used to minimize the functional. On the other
hand, p ≤ 1 tends to concentrate high strain over small supports, a feature called “localization
instability” frequently met in plasticity and damage theories [126]. When dealing with cracks, it
is very useful to be able to concentrate strains (up to displacement discontinuity) over a support
that should finally coincide with a possible crack. Hence, here, what is usually a major difficulty
for numerical modeling becomes an advantage. In such a case, one would appreciate both con-
vexity and localization ability, thereby leading to p = 1. Higher order L operators could also
be considered, such as those expressing balance of inner nodes but for a nonlinear elastic law
mimicking perfect plasticity.
3.5.4 Application to cracked sample
The flexural test discussed in Section 3.2.2 is again considered to show the effect of elastic regular-
ization. For comparison purposes, Figure 13(a,d) shows the displacement field in the longitudinal
direction, and the maximum principal strain when unregularized DVC is run with 12-voxels el-
ements (see Figure 12). Figure 13(b,e) shows the same fields when regularized DVC is run with
a regularization length of 120 voxels with the same mesh. The dimensionless root mean square
correlation residual is slightly higher (i.e., 2.67 % instead of 2.65 % for unregularized DVC),
which is to be expected since the displacement field is more constrained in the present case. The
displacement gradients have been filtered out due to the elastic regularization, which acts as a
low-pass filter. The high frequency fluctuations (i.e., measurement uncertainties) have also been
taken out since they are not mechanically admissible.
                  (a)                                   (b)                                   (c)
                  (d)                                   (e)                                   (f)
Fig. 13 Foamed gypsum subjected to 4-point flexure. 3D renderings of the longitudinal displacement (expressed
in voxel,1 voxel ≡ 50    μm) and measured with regularized DVC with different regularization kernels: (a) no
regularization (or vanishing regularization length ξ), (b) elastic law with large length ξ = 120 voxels, (c) damage
law with small length ξ = 12 voxels. Corresponding maximum equivalent strain for the same three laws shown
respectively in (d), (e) and (f). The same mesh is used in all cases.
    To localize the strain field, the regularization is relaxed by using a damage variable [94]. A final
calculation is then run with no damage and a very small regularization length (i.e., 12 voxels) in
order to only filter out high frequency fluctuations. The root mean square correlation residual is
equal to 2.65 % (as for unregularized DVC). Figure 13(c,f) shows the displacement field in the
longitudinal direction, and the corresponding maximum principal strain. In the present case, the
displacement field is very smooth outside the cracked areas, which are well captured and localized
(at the scale of one element size).
3.6 Integrated DVC
The limit of a diverging regularization length scale ξ → ∞ is also well-defined. It reduces the
search space for u(x) to U1 that is now defined as the kernel of the operator L[u]. Therefore, the
dimensionality of this space is much reduced, as typically a unique solution for u can be computed
when boundary conditions are fixed. Allowing for some variability of the constitutive parameters
(and possibly also boundary conditions) all gathered into a column vector {p}, allows the set of
all mechanically admissible displacement fields to be defined as an affine space about a nominal
{p0 } vector
                        u(x, t; {p}) = u0 (x, t; {p0 }) + si (x, t; {p0 })({p} − {p0 })             (30)
where si is the sensitivity of the displacement field with respect to pi (i.e., si (x, t; {p0 }) =
∂u/∂{p}(x, t; {p0 })). In the above expression the dimensionality of the displacement field is that
of the unknown vector {p}. This generally very small dimensionality implies also a much reduced
value of the uncertainties as compared to less guided DVC approaches. One example of such an
approach where the number of unknowns was turned from several 105 down to about 10 can be
found in Ref. [23]. The advantage of such approaches is that the measured kinematic field is also
statically admissible (in the finite element sense). However, the difficulty is that the parameterized
constitutive law has to be realistic as compared to expectation. In some cases, elasticity is clearly
sufficient [23, 21]. In some other cases, elastoplastic postulates were tuned at meso [93] or micro [31]
scales.
    In the following integrated DVC will be applied to a pre-cracked parallelepipedic sample made
of spheroidal graphite cast iron (Figure 14(a)) and subjected to tensile loading by using the
testing machine shown in Figure 7(a). The same procedure as discussed in Refs. [133, 132, 185]
was followed in the sample preparation. The cross-section of the sample is 1.6 × 1 mm2 . The
specimen is loaded in seven incremental steps (Figure 14(b)). The first two scans of the reference
configuration allow displacement uncertainties to be evaluated.
    A complete scan of the sample corresponds to a 360° rotation along its vertical axis, during
which 1,000 radiographs are acquired with a definition of 1, 944 × 1, 536 pixels. Each scan lasted
less than 20 min. The physical voxel size is 7.2 μm, and the reconstructed volume is encoded with
8-bit deep gray levels. In the following, the mesoscopic behavior will be studied. The constitutive
equation investigated hereafter is Ludwik’s law [136] associated with J2 plasticity and isotropic
hardening described by a power law function of the cumulative plastic strain.
    The integrated DVC code, Correli 3.0 [121], is a Matlab implementation that uses in a non
intrusive way a finite element code to compute the spatiotemporal sensitivity fields in addition to
the current estimates of the displacement fields and reaction forces [93]. The inputs to such simu-
lations are the measured displacements of top and bottom boundaries of the ROI. In the present
case, the commercial finite element package Abaqus/Standard is used with its built-in constitutive
laws. C++ kernels compute all the other data needed to perform DVC analyses, namely, the DVC
matrix [M ], the instantaneous voxel residuals ρ(x, t), and the instantaneous nodal residual vector
{b(t)}. Binary MEX files were generated and called in the Matlab environment to compute the
Hessians and residual vectors to be utilized in the Newton scheme introduced above.
    Figure 14(b-d) summarizes the identification results for the mesh considered in the present
analysis. To account for the presence of the crack, a node splitting technique is used. The shape
of the crack surface is obtained by first running T4-DVC with no crack (i.e., global DVC with 4-
noded tetrahedra and linear shape functions). The characteristic element size is equal to 12 voxels
(Figure 14(c)). From the gray level residuals of unregularized DVC with no crack, the shape of
the crack surface is determined [185].
    At convergence, the hardening modulus is found to be equal to 1300 MPa and the hardening
exponent is equal to 0.4. The yield stress for an offset of 0.2 % is found to be equal to 200 MPa.
When the measured load history is compared to the corresponding predictions (Figure 14(b)),
significant differences are observed. The global residuals are significantly higher than the mea-
surement uncertainties (i.e., 10 times higher). This is an indication of model errors. At least three
origins can be invoked in the present case. First, the geometry of the cracked surface is not fully
consistent with the experiment. Second the mesh is not fine enough to properly capture mechan-
ical fields via FE simulations. Third, the constitutive law is only an approximation of the actual
behavior.
    At convergence of the integrated DVC code, the gray level residuals are very low (Figure 14(d))
in comparison with the reference microstructure (Figure 14(a)), except in the immediate vicinity
of the crack . This result can be explained by the fact that the mesh is not fine enough to precisely
describe the cracked surface. It is worth noting that mesh refinement could be used for integrated
DVC as opposed to regular DVC analyses for which the spatial resolution cannot be decreased
at will (see Section 4.1). In the other areas of high residuals, it is rather due to the boundary
conditions that were not perfectly captured with unregularized (due to the fineness of the mesh).
On average, the gray level residuals are only 25 % higher than those observed when virtually no
motion occurred (i.e., between scans#1 and #2). Moreover, ring artifacts are seen quite clearly,
and contribute to this residual. This is an additional sign that registration was successful. When
compared to unregularized DVC, with the same mesh, the global residual is only slightly higher
(i.e., a factor 1.25 for integrated DVC instead of 1.22 for unregularized DVC, when the global
residuals are normalized by the level observed with almost no motion).
                          (a)                                                  (b)
                                (c)                                            (d)
Fig. 14 Identification results via 4D registration. (a) Orthoslice of the gray level volume of scan #1. (b)
Comparison of measured and predicted load levels. (c) T4 mesh used in the present study. (d) 3D rendering of
the thresholded gray level residuals of scan #8
    In the present case, the chosen mesh is not too fine so that DVC and integrated DVC results
can be compared. This is generally not the case as integrated DVC allows very fine meshes to be
used [93, 29, 31]. The RMS difference between measured and computed displacement fields is equal
to 0.5 voxel. This level is to be compared with the measurement uncertainty. With the chosen
discretization, the standard displacement uncertainty is equal to 0.06 voxel. The RMS difference
is ≈ 8 times the displacement uncertainty, again signalling a model error. To understand where
the displacement discrepancies are located, Figure 15 shows the displacement fields measured by
DVC and integrated DVC for the next to last scan. It is worth remembering that the Dirichlet
boundary conditions of integrated DVC are measured data (via regular DVC). Consequently,
the displacement errors cancel out at upper and lower surfaces of the considered ROI. However,
very close to it the differences are quite significant. This is due to uncertainties in the boundary
conditions. Some filtering could used by using verification tools [93]. The other area where the
largest gaps are observed in the cracked zone. This is to be expected because of model errors
discussed above.
                 (a)                                (b)                                (c)
Fig. 15 3D renderings of the longitudinal displacements (expressed in voxels) of scan #7. (a) DVC measure-
ments, (b) integrated DVC at convergence, and (c) difference of the two
    The fact that gray level residuals, load residuals and displacement residuals have levels less
than ten times the measurement uncertainties shows that the simple elastoplastic model considered
herein should not be discarded. However, it should be enriched to account for damage especially
at the last load level where all residuals increase significantly. There is clearly some room for
progress by improving the numerical model along all the lines discussed above.
3.7 DVC for NDE purposes
Considered from an abstract standpoint, DVC is the art of computing image differences taking
into account possible deformations between images. Differences arising from distortions could be
erased by taking them into account through corrected images ge.
    Although most previous examples were taken from mechanically loaded specimen, this is not
compulsory. In particular, industrial manufacturing implies the production of a large number of
parts of about the same microstructure. DVC can be used for the comparison between a “master
piece” and any produced part. Here the displacement field is not physical, but it reflects variable
distortions due to the manufacturing process. Some of them could be deemed acceptable and
some others not. As such DVC would then provide an NDE of the production line. Additionally
residuals would evidence irreducible flaws that are topological differences.
    A natural field of applicability of these concepts is NDE of woven composites. These composite
materials are becoming key in many applications mainly due to their very attractive specific prop-
erties (e.g., strength to weight ratio). They are conformed by yarns (reinforcement phase) woven
after a three-dimensional pattern and held together by a resin (matrix phase). The increasing
interest in these materials has generated a high demand for proper characterization methods as
well as for accurate simulations.
    In this context, DVC provides a quantitative evaluation of continuous deformations (e.g.,
stretching and bending of yarns) that may define acceptable/unacceptable weaving distortions
due to resin impregnation or infiltration, molding, curing as well as for a qualitative insight into
the detection of weaving abnormalities (e.g., missing yarn, bad positioning, loop). The former are
called “metric differences,” while the latter are called “topological differences” (see Figure 16) as
they cannot be reconciled by a simple continuous deformation of the medium [204, 152].
Fig. 16 Residual field. The lowest values are made transparent to allow for visualization of the largest differ-
ences. In this particular test case, two yarns were omitted in one weaving as compared to the reference one. The
black dotted curves are drawn by hand to guide the reading along the missing yarns. Residuals highlight differ-
ences that cannot be resolved by a deformation of the medium, and thus referred to as “topological differences.”
This example illustrates the potential of DVC for NDE applications
    Then the use of DVC under a multiresolution isotropic approach [152] for two different manu-
factured samples allows for the measurement of relative displacements and subsequent estimation
of relative strains (deformations). These calculated relative strains are not a result of any loading
prescribed to the sample, but rather of the many phenomena present during the manufacturing
process that result in slightly different samples.
    Extending this concept to cases where the gray levels may vary (as discussed in Section 3.1.2)
offers a very convenient framework for the comparison between a real part (e.g., x-ray scanned
after production) and its theoretical model (e.g., CAD, weaving model, or mesh). As such, the
studied sample is considered as in a so-called deformed or warped configuration with respect to
the virtual reference. This reference configuration corresponds to the ideal weaving pattern, as
can be defined by virtual models (FE, CAD). The procedure allows woven composites volumes
(obtained from tomography) to be unwarped into a more convenient representation [153].
    As expected for woven fabrics, it is important to identify and follow the weaving process
itself (i.e., the yarns) from a tomographic image. DVC in such cases may offer a very convenient
alternative to segmentation since topology is preserved. The transformation between model and
actual part allows for the transfer of whatever feature available from one world into the other
one. For instance, if yarns are labelled in the model, their label can immediately be transferred
onto the actual image. If a mesh has been tailored to the model, it can be mapped without effort
onto the actual geometry. Shape metrology can be obtained for free. Clearly, manual intervention
is possible for extracting such information. Needless to say, this is a tedious and time consuming
operation that could suffer from operator bias and lack the required resolution. Alternatively,
advanced image processing methods are also available. However they often are too specialized or
overly sensitive to slight changes on the input image (i.e., resolution, noise, artifacts) or to the
material itself.
    In Figure 17, a modified version of the multiresolution isotropic approach helps to overcome the
challenge imposed by the poor texture provided by the discretized (i.e., voxelized) version of the
weaving model and succeeds in properly relating it to the tomographic image of the manufactured
sample. The resulting mapping is used to display the shear strain magnitude onto the virtual
model.
Fig. 17 Example of a computed virtual strain field obtained from a tomographic image projected onto the
corresponding virtual model of the textile. The color encoding refers to the shear strain εxy , where (x, y) is the
front plane
    In general, DVC applied to composite materials offers applications ranging from NDE of com-
posite parts up to the validation of new weaving architectures for composite structures. Moreover,
it improves over current NDE tools since they may not provide enough information to detect sub-
tle deformations (and even not so subtle ones) such as those originated from the aforementioned
“topological differences.”
    This section shows that in particular for (demanding) industrial applications DVC offers un-
precedented opportunities at very low cost. Segmentation usually proceeds from the smallest scale
toward the larger ones and hence topology is not securely preserved. The advantage of DVC over
classical approaches is that the large scale features, and in particular topology, are preserved in
the mapping.
4 Uncertainty and bias quantifications
4.1 Uncertainty quantifications
As discussed above, DVC is an ill-posed problem. To circumvent this difficulty, the needed regular-
ization is often implicitly introduced through the choice a kinematic basis for the sought solution.
Relaxation of this regularization, as motivated by enhanced spatial resolution, is unavoidably ac-
companied with a degradation of the measurement uncertainty [18, 131, 122, 46, 243]. This effect
has been referred to as the “curse of displacement resolution versus spatial resolution in DIC” [96].
    There are various ways of estimating the uncertainties of correlation techniques [46]. When
only one acquisition is available, artificial motions i.e., generally uniform translations are applied
to create a new volume that is subsequently registered with the reference volume [197, 14, 133,
95, 137, 46]. For extended DVC, the prescribed translation was uniform or discontinuous to probe
the uncertainties associated with discontinuous enrichments [192, 185]. This first type of analysis
mainly probes the interpolation scheme of the gray levels to achieve sub-voxel resolutions.
    The second type of approach also uses only one reference volume but consists of adding noise
to create a new volume, which is correlated with its noise-free reference [123, 122]. The advantage
of such approaches is that i) closed-form solutions can be derived, and ii) their predictions can
be validated against actual DVC calculations [122, 156, 93]. The sensitivity to noise is addressed
in this type of procedure.
    Last, the two previous sources of uncertainty can be probed in a more reliable way when the
same type of analysis is performed with real experimental data [18, 134, 97, 131, 46]. Such is the
case when analyzing two consecutive scans of the sample in a given loading state (it may also
be unloaded) with preferably a deliberately introduced motion between the two acquisitions. The
main advantage is that both sources of error are investigated at the same time for the material of
interest. For computed tomography, different displacement resolutions have been reported when
the displacement is prescribed along or perpendicular to the rotation axis [97, 131]. Further, the
general tendencies observed with DVC approaches are higher measurement uncertainties when
compared with DIC [134, 97]. When using regularized approaches, the levels could be reduced to
those reached in 2D-DIC [122, 214].
    Let us note that there are few comparisons between local and global approaches to DVC [122,
137, 169, 93, 168]. Overall, it is found that the measurement uncertainties are of the same order
of magnitude when the total number of kinematic unknowns are similar. There is however an
additional bonus for the standard displacement resolution (i.e., of the order of 20% for hexahe-
dra [122] and even higher for tetrahedra [93]) when the continuity requirement is enforced. The
price to pay is related to the computation time that is higher.
    In the sequel, some very recent results obtained for laminography are summarized. Contrary
to tomography, the laminography technique [82, 88] enables for in-situ imaging of studied regions
in plate-like samples but involves incomplete sampling, which may increase the measurement
uncertainty. Laminography is still a recent imaging technique [87, 89]. Consequently, there is a
need for metrological assessment of the measured displacement fields and the corresponding strain
fields [156, 28]. The uncertainty levels are estimated by following the last presented method that
includes multiple scans prior to the experiment itself:
  – repeated scan - bis: two scans are acquired without any motion between the two acquisitions.
  – rigid body motion - rbm: two scans are acquired when a rigid body motion is applied prior to
    the second acquisition. This case is deemed difficult [156] because the reconstruction artifacts
    (e.g., rings) do not follow the motion and may severely bias the displacement measurements.
To assess the contribution induced by rigid body motions bis and rbm cases are compared. These
effects will be probed for three different materials:
  – aluminum alloy AA2139 grade (i.e., Al-Cu-Mg alloy), with intermetallic volume fraction de-
    termined to be 0.45 % and an initial void volume fraction of 0.34 % (see Figure 2(a)). Two
    different heat treatments were studied [157, 28], namely, T3 denotes the recrystallized state,
    solution heat-treated, stretched by between 2-4 % and naturally aged to obtain T351 (T3)
    condition. Conversely, T8 stands for the recrystallized state after an artificial aging treatment.
  – aluminum alloy AA2198 grade (i.e., Al-Cu-Li alloy), which has no initial porosity and 0.3 %
    volume fraction of metallic inclusions (see Figure 2(b)). Again, two different heat treatments
    (T3 and T8) have been studied [158, 30, 28].
  – commercial nodular graphite cast iron (EN-GJS-400 [29, 28, 206]), which represents another
    class of materials with different microstructural length scales (Figure 2(c)).
    The listed materials are analyzed by first conducting DVC analyses to measure displacement
fields. The latter ones are interpolated to account for rigid body motions, both translations and
rotations. The identified rigid body motions are then extracted from measured fields resulting
in an estimation of the measurement errors [131]. The root mean square error associated with
each displacement component is then computed, whose average σu will be reported for C8-DVC.
The size ` of each C8 element is the length expressed in voxels of any edge. Different element
sizes are considered, namely, 16, 24, 32, 48 and 64-voxel elements. Figure 18 shows the standard
displacement uncertainty as a function of the element size. In the figure, repeated scans (i.e., bis
cases) are shown with solid lines while rigid body motion (rbm) cases are depicted with dashed
lines.
                  Mean displacement resolution (voxels)
                                                          10 0
                                                                                                         2139 T3 rbm
                                                                                                         2139 T8 bis
                                                                                                         2139 T8 rbm
                                                                                                         2198 T3 bis
                                                               -1                                        2198 T3 rbm
                                                          10
                                                                                                         2198 T8 rbm
                                                                                                         Cast Iron bis
                                                               -2
                                                          10
                                                                    20       30      40     50   60 70
                                                                    Element size (voxels)
Fig. 18 Standard displacement uncertainty as function of the element size for the analyzed materials
    These results illustrate the displacement uncertainty versus spatial resolution compromise to
be made in DVC analyses [197, 123, 122], which is a signature of the ill-posedness of the underlying
problem. It can be expressed by a power law relationship [197, 131]
                                                                                         Aα+1
                                                                                  σu =                                   (31)
                                                                                          `α
where A is a constant expressed in voxels [131, 156].
    AA2198 T8 bis case has overall the lowest uncertainty values. The amount of rigid body in
case of AA2198 T8 rbm is small and mainly in the direction of the rotation axis (i.e., artificial
rings do not move) and it can be considered as equivalent to a bis case. This is why AA2198
T3 bis and AA2198 T8 rbm results almost coincide. However, when larger rigid body motions
are applied to the AA2198 microstructure, significant degradations occur as can be seen in the
example of AA2198 T3 rbm.
    Conversely, the AA2139 microstructure (with initial voids) is less affected by rigid body mo-
tions. AA2139 T8 rbm and AA2198 T3 rbm have almost identical size/position of the region of
interest and amount of rigid body motion but still the relative gap between the corresponding
bis and rbm cases are not identical. This case highlights an additional criterion concerning DVC
uncertainty for laminography data, namely, its sensitivity to rigid body motions associated with
the sample geometrical features (e.g., notch, drilled holes, crack). According to these results, a mi-
crostructure with intermetallic particles only (i.e., without voids and thus showing less contrast)
is more sensitive to the detrimental effect of rigid body motions.
    Even though cast iron represents another class of materials with different microstructural
scales (Figure 2(c)) the reported displacement resolution virtually coincides with bis uncertainty
levels for aluminum alloys. When compared to tomography resolutions [131] of the same type
of material (cast iron) but not the same resolution (i.e., side length of one voxel is 3.5       μm),
laminography is more challenging than tomography since there is a difference of at least a factor
of 3 between the two uncertainty levels [28].
    When successful, DIC/DVC calculations yield gray level residuals reduced to the level of noise
(e.g., in the case of correlations between initial and artificially deformed initial images there is
almost a one to one correspondence between the normalized RMS residual (by dynamic range
                                          √
∆f ) and the dimensionless noise level      2σ [99]). In the studied example (bis and rbm cases
shown in Figure 18), the overall noise level (i.e., acquisition and reconstruction) is unknown but
can be estimated by the RMS value of the residual at convergence. Figure 19 shows the best and
worst cases from Figure 18 normalized by the overall noise level calculated from the corresponding
residual fields. When controlled by white Gaussian noise, nodal displacement uncertainties divided
by the noise level are expected to follow a power law of the element size ` with an exponent
−3/2 [122]. The results in Figure 19 show that this dependence is not observed. This may be due
to the occurrence of ring artifacts, which are observed in Figure 2 and which are clearly more
significant than random noise for these cases.
                  Normalized displacement resolution (-)
                                                                2
                                                           10
                                                                                                2198T3 bis
                                                                                                2139T3 rbm
                                                           10 1
                                                           10 0
                                                           10 -1
                                                                    20           30        40    50    60    70
                                                                         Element size (voxel)
Fig. 19 Standard displacement uncertainty normalized by the (estimated) noise standard deviation as a func-
tion of the element size for the two aluminium alloys. The solid lines show −3/2 power laws that would be
expected in the case of white Gaussian noise as controlling uncertainty. This seems not to be the case
    In the present case, it appears that the uncertainty mainly comes from the laminography
technique and its associated artifacts [88, 238]. The uncertainty levels are equal or higher with
rigid body motions since some of the artifacts are not attached to the microstructure (e.g., phase-
contrast edge enhancement) but intrinsic to the acquisition set-up (e.g., ring artifacts). This result
calls for caution and it is advisable to acquire at least two scans in the reference configuration,
if possible by slightly moving the setup between the two acquisitions, to evaluate the practical
displacement and strain resolutions of the studied material.
4.2 Theoretical study of projection noise
One important source of uncertainty (albeit not always dominant as seen in the previous examples)
is the presence of noise in the images. This question, at least when the variance of noise is
low enough, can be treated on a theoretical ground using perturbation analyses. They provide
quantitative estimates of the influence of noise on the kinematic analysis. This is important
inasmuch as the obtained estimates of the full covariance matrix can be further used to evaluate
the uncertainty of parameters identified with the measured displacement fields [165]. Moreover,
the explicit expression of the covariance matrix on the measured degrees of freedom allows the
“best” metric to be tailored in order to perform this identification step. Best is not just arrogant,
but among all unbiased methods (and an infinite number of them exist), the “best” one refers to
the one that delivers the sought parameters with the least uncertainty.
    Before addressing the specific case of tomographic noise, let us first recall general DIC results
that were obtained first for regular 2D-DIC [16, 99], but hold for all dimensionalities [122]. Let
us consider that all images are corrupted by white and Gaussian noise, ηf (x) and ηg (x), for
f and g respectively for the reference and deformed images (white in this context means that
noise is spatially uncorrelated from pixel to pixel). The whiteness is not limiting and the same
argument can be readily extended to an arbitrary spatial correlation. The Gaussian character is
more limiting as it provides a very nice and comfortable stability property, namely, through linear
operations (or through the linear tangent operators when the noise amplitude allows), noise will
remain Gaussian, and hence the fluctuation of the measurement, here displacement fields, will
also be Gaussian. Likewise the average of the noise being null, the obtained result will also be
affected by a fluctuation whose expectation is null, which is to say the measurement is un-biased.
Therefore, only variances are sufficient to characterize the noise-induced fluctuations of the result.
When noise is non-Gaussian, it will tend to a Gaussian distribution, and the variance (and co-
variances) are correctly computed with an argument based on Gaussian noise. However, higher
order moments (that is 4th — or kurtosis — to start off with) have to be considered to see how
close the measurement fluctuation is to a Gaussian distribution.
    It can be noted that the situation is equivalent to the one where the noise affecting the reference
image would be null and that of g would be an effective noise ηeg = ηg − ηf , white, Gaussian and of
variance 2σ 2 , where σ 2 is that of each ηf or ηg . This observation gives an easier computation but
the result does not depend on it. Introducing this noise in the images will induce an uncertainty
{δu} in the measured displacement. The latter is formally evaluated by exploiting the computation
of the displacement with successive corrections using the Newton’s descend method. Equation (24)
thus provides
                                            {δu} = [N ]† {ηeg }                                    (32)
This linear relationship implies that the result is unbiased, h{δu}i = 0. The covariance matrix
of this measurement noise is [Covu ] = h{δu}{δu}> i where the angular brackets designate the
expected value. From the above expression, the covariance matrix becomes
                     [Covu ] = h[N ]† {ηeg }{ηeg }[N ]†> i
                               = ([N ]> [N ])−1 [N ]> h{ηeg }{ηeg }i[N ]([N ]> [N ])−1
                                                                                                   (33)
                               = 2σ 2 ([N ]> [N ])−1 ([N ]> [N ])([N ]> [N ])−1
                               = 2σ 2 [M ]−1
    The above result is remarkably simple and compact [122]. What is particularly convenient
is that the practical use of the above covariance matrix is to introduce a “metric tensor” (i.e.,
Mahalanobis distance [140]) to appreciate a scalar product of such displacement fields as u · v =
{u}> [Covu ]−1 {v}. Hence, the appropriate norm to weigh the different degrees of freedom is
written as kuk2 = 1/(2σ 2 ){u}> [M ]{u}, so that there is no need to invert the [M ] matrix.
    To illustrate this result, the three microstructures shown in Figure 2 are considered in order
to assess their sensitivity to noise. For that purpose, the 100 largest eigenvalues of [M ]−1 (i.e.,
the lowest sensitivities of measured nodal displacements) for the studied microstructures and
element size (`=32 voxels) are shown in Figure 20. This information shows the isolated influence
of the microstructure quality on the uncertainty. AA2198 T3 and T8 have higher eigenvalues than
AA2139 T3 and T8 although in the final uncertainty analysis the opposite trend is observed. The
heat treatment (T3 or T8) does not play a significant role here. The grading that is observed
from AA2198, the most prone to noise, to AA2139 intermediate and finally cast iron, showing
the least sensitivity to noise, is consistent with the intuitive appreciation of the richness of the
microstructure. However, it has been seen above that the effective level of displacement uncertainty
was rather close for these three materials. To solve this apparent contradiction, let us mention
that the above covariance is the product of [M ]−1 by the noise variance 2σ 2 , and from Figure 2,
it seems that the noise level is not equal in all three cases (AA2139 with its more favorable
microstructure is also affected by a stronger noise than AA2198). Moreover, the noise affecting
these images seems more due to ring artifacts than random noise. This observation underlines the
importance of additional influences (e.g., acquisition and reconstruction artifacts) on uncertainty.
Fig. 20 The largest 100 eigenvalues of the inverse DVC matrix [M ] for the studied microstructures and element
size `=32 voxels
4.3 How white is white noise?
The above considerations work well for white noise. Such may be the case for the noise affecting
radiographs, but the fact that the 3D volume is computed naturally introduces correlations in
the volume and, ideally, this should be taken into account. Hence the following section aims at
computing such correlations in the noise.
    For the sake of simplicity, the case of parallel beam tomography is considered. 3D images,
f (x), are obtained from an inverse Radon transform of the projections p(r, θ) [114]
                                            f (x) = S[p(r, θ)]                                   (34)
where r designates the coordinates in the detector space r = (r, z), z is parallel to the rotation
axis, θ the angle of the sample for the projection, and p the projection, i.e., the cologarithm of
the ratio of the radiograph intensity at position r to the beam intensity (flat field) at the same
point. For a parallel beam the different slices perpendicular to the z axis are uncoupled, and are
treated independently. The inverse Radon transform consists of computing a convolution (along
r) of the projection by R(r)
                                        qθ (r, z) = R ? p(r, z, θ)                               (35)
where F[R](k) = |k| is the so-called Ram-Lak filter [114]. The inverse Radon transform then reads
                                          Z   π
                            f (x, y, z) =        qθ (x sin(θ) − y cos(θ), z) dθ                  (36)
                                            0
    Let us assume a Gaussian white noise on projections
                             hηp (r, z)ηp (r 0 , z 0 )i = σ 2 δ(r − r 0 )δ(z − z 0 )             (37)
with a uniform variance σ 2 . This noise in the projection, ηp , induces a noise in the reconstructed
image, ηf , which has to be characterized. The linearity of the reconstruction implies that ηf is
centered Gaussian noise as well. It is also to be observed, although this may be less intuitive, that
this noise is spatially stationary. In particular, the distance to the rotation axis plays no role. One
way to show this property is to note that the rotation axis may be “moved” virtually by a mere
translation of the different projections along r, by a quantity that depends on the angle θ. These
translations have no effect on the image noise and hence no more on the reconstruction noise,
from which stationarity results. Only the covariance of ηf is needed to fully characterize it
                                                      Z
                   hηf (x)ηf (x0 )i = σ 2 δ(z − z 0 )    S[δ(r − x, z)]S[δ(r − x0 , z)]dr           (38)
                                                       r
Because of the decoupling of different z-slices and the statistical independence of the noise along
the z axis, the resulting noise ηf is uncorrelated along the z direction. However, in the transverse,
(x, y), plane, the spatial covariance of ηf has to be characterized.
    It may be further noted that ηf is isotropic, so that the correlation function only depends
on the relative distance between points x and x0 (provided they lie in the same plane, z = z 0 ),
hηf (x)ηf (x0 )i = C(|x − x0 |)δ(z − z 0 ) where C(d) is the covariance of ηf for two points distant
of d. The expression of C(d) is more easily computed in Fourier space, as the power spectrum
of ηp is uniform in the wavevector. The only subtlety comes from the denser sampling of noise
close to the rotation axis, in Fourier space increasing the noise variance as 1/|k|, which is exactly
compensated by the Ram-Lak filter. Hence, the power spectrum of noise in Fourier space is
uniform, and the covariance reduces to a delta (Dirac) distribution in real space. Theoretically,
in spite of the highly correlated steps involved in the inverse Radon transform (i.e., the back-
projection may appear to build up long-range correlations) the reconstructed image displays white
noise. Thus, the appropriate similarity measure, as discussed in the previous section, reduces to
that of quadratic differences.
    However, in practice, the sampling of angles is not continuous, and some small scale details in
the representation of voxels are always present. The effective noise is never actually white at the
pixel scale, but displays a slight broadening and possibly anti-correlations that come from details
of the implementation. If one wants however to see how good/bad the approximation of white
noise is, it is fairly easy to generate a series of projections that consists of uncorrelated Gaussian
noise ηp with the very same format as the projections to be exploited, compute the inverse
Radon transform of this noise with the used reconstruction code (one single slice is sufficient) and
finally compute its pair correlation function. The latter usually departs slightly from the Dirac
distribution, apart from nearest neighbor pixels that may display nonzero correlations.
4.4 Measurement biases and artifacts
In the previous sections, the roles of image noise, inter-voxel interpolation or displacement dis-
cretization were emphasized. However, other effects such as artifacts inevitably present in tomog-
raphy may affect the image quality (or fidelity), and in turn possibly bias DVC results. This may
be especially dangerous as the quality of image registration may not be at fault, but the interpre-
tation of the results may reveal inappropriate. In the following, various artifacts of 3D imaging
systems are discussed and ways to immunize DVC against these effects, and x-ray tomography
(because of its dominance in 3D imaging) is the first technique that is considered.
4.4.1 Ring artifacts
Among classical artifacts, “rings” were already mentioned. This is a good illustration of the
previous risk, namely when the material absorption coefficient is homogeneous, the main source
of contrast in the reconstructed volume may be due to the artifactual rings. However, the latter
are not bound to the material, and hence they do not move in the same way as the sample itself.
Hence registration may provide displacement data such that rings are positioned on top of each
other, that is for a null displacement, and not necessarily the actual one.
    Very often the detector exhibits spatially random bias but that is steady in time (and hence
in θ), ηdet (r, z). (A similar effect may result from imperfect flat-fields.) Some tomographs now
come with a translation of the detector during scan rotation, and these motions are then further
numerically corrected by a mere translation of the projection. This procedure averages out the
bias for a large part, and the reconstructed volumes are typically of better quality. Otherwise
these biases give rise to “rings” or “half-rings” depending on the spanned angles during the scan.
For the aluminium alloys of Figure 2, rings are clearly visible. If the bias itself can be described
as Gaussian noise in space, the resulting noise in the image now displays the same ring features
in their spatial correlation.
     This type of noise presents a nice case study for DVC. A first strategy is to introduce explicitly
the possible bias, so that an acquired volume is written as
                                                                 p
                                 fˆ(x, y, z) = f (x, y, z) + ηr ( x2 + y 2 , z)                         (39)
and thus the DVC problem consists of the determination of both the kinematics and the detector
bias ηdet . To this aim, it is to be noted that the deformed image is affected by the same bias,
but because of the deformation of the sample and its rigid body motions, the corrected image
geu suffers from a “scrambled” version of this detector bias. The quadratic difference similarity
measure thus takes a more complicated expression
                     X
               S=          ĝ(x + ux , y + uy , z + uz ) − fˆ(x, y, z)
                      x                                                                                 (40)
                                 p                                              p          2
                         −ηdet ( (x + ux )2 + (y + uy )2 , z + uz ) + ηdet ( x2 + y 2 , z)
     This expression looks like a difficult problem to tackle. However, it can be noted that the de-
tector noise is assumed to be small, and hence one may solve the above minimization iteratively.
More precisely, one may initialize the solution of the problem as in standard DVC, that is neglect-
ing ηdet . Once a first determination of the displacement has been estimated, one may obtain a
first estimate of f , fest and ηdet , using first the average of the reference fˆ and corrected deformed
         f as fest , and from the difference fˆ − fest , an angle-average provides an estimate for
image (ĝ) u
ηdet . With the latter, a new estimation of both fest and gest is produced, from which DVC will
refine the determination of the kinematics, and iteratively, better and better determinations of
the bias and kinematics will be obtained.
    Yet another possibility, if time allows, is to acquire several images of the sample without any
mechanical loading, but only rigid body motions. In that case, it is rather straightforward to
estimate this motion very precisely and the above procedure may provide a prior determination
of ηdet with very few iterations. Equipped with this determination, images can be pre-corrected
before performing DVC, and the detector bias should no longer affect the results.
    An alternative route is to devise a similarity measure that is unaffected by the detector bias.
For instance, a projection operator, P , is introduced such that gf = P [f ] and defined as
                                           Z   π
                               gf (r, z) =       f (r cos(θ), r sin(θ), z) dθ                        (41)
                                             0
and its complementary hf = Q[f ]
                                                               p
                               h(x, y, z) = f (x, y, z) − gf ( x2 + y 2 , z)                         (42)
Because this linear operator filters out the detector noise as can be observed from Q[fˆ] = Q[f ]
or Q[ηdet ] = 0, a similarity measure that is based on the quadratic norm of Q[fˆ − (ĝ)    f ] can be
                                                                                               u
considered. However, the projector Q is tuned to fˆ but not to (ĝ)         f , and hence this similarity
                                                                              u
measure is only an approximation. To mend this difficulty, ηdet would have to be estimated in
turn, correct fˆ and ĝ and iterate, and this would be equivalent to the previous route. As earlier
mentioned for the discussion about the similarity measure, the most secure way to proceed is to
explicitly describe the type of perturbation that affects the measurement, and determine all the
parameters (and/or fields) that are involved in the measurement. This general rule allows the user
to judge in the end whether the determined quantities (i.e., both measurements of interest but
also artifacts) are consistent with the prior knowledge (or at least assumptions) used to analyze
the case under consideration.
4.4.2 Beam hardening
In lab tomographs, the x-ray source has generally a broad distribution of energies. X-ray absorption
however depends on the frequency (or energy). Nevertheless, reconstruction softwares usually
treat the beam as if it were monochromatic. The differential absorption of x-rays with wavelength
means that as the ray penetrates into the solid, its spectrum concentrates onto the least absorbed
frequencies, a phenomenon called “beam hardening.” The consequence of beam hardening is that
the outer layer of the sample will appear as being more absorbent than the core. Such an effect is
however generally innocuous for DVC as it is a systematic effect that is attached to the sample.
However, in some cases, beam hardening will be responsible for the formation of shadows behind a
high or low density inclusion. These shadows are geometric effects that are of geometric origin and
will not rotate with the sample. One should be extremely careful with such effects, and residuals
should be examined carefully.
    Let us note that when the material is made of a single phase (or when this provides a good
approximation), it is possible to correct this beam-hardening effect with a procedure due to
Herman [91] that consists of nonlinearly rescaling the gray levels.
4.4.3 Spurious motion during scan
Another difficulty comes from the possible motion of the specimen during one scan. This risk
is reduced by the possibility of performing high-speed scans at synchrotron beamlines [32, 143].
Yet because of an applied mechanical load during a scan, it is difficult to exclude motions due to
viscous relaxation, or to delayed damage or plastic flow. In such cases, the reconstructed image
appears to be blurred, and DVC may produce erroneous results or at least uncertain ones, prone to
high noise. If residuals are not examined in details, such phenomena may go unnoticed. Similarly
instead of the sample motion, it may be the rotation axis of the scan that does not remain steady.
These effects are common ones in tomography but the coupling of tomography with in-situ testing
aggravates such risks.
    Within the same type of artifacts, let us mention a last one due to the change in the source-
sample distance in cone-beam setups in between the reference and the deformed image. Such
a motion induces a magnification change that should not be interpreted in mechanical terms,
especially for small strains [131, 233]. Micrometer-scale displacements of the source may induce a
dilation that can easily be confused with a mechanical strain in terms of order of magnitude. As a
consequence, an excellent thermal stability is required to prevent such spurious kinematics. Many
recent lab systems have a thermal regulation that limits this bias. This last remark underlines
the need for comprehensive analyses to fully assess the sources of measurement uncertainties.
In Section 5.6, it will be seen that working directly with projections (i.e., radiographs) rather
than reconstructed volumes (via P-DVC [124]), first makes the problem less relevant because of
the reduction in acquisition time that can be made drastic, and second opens the possibility of
performing individual corrections on the projections.
4.4.4 OCT
For full-field Optical Coherence Tomography, the volume consists of a stack of images coming from
successive depths within semi-transparent materials. Since no computation is needed to construct
the volume, the sources of artifacts are much less numerous. However, as earlier mentioned, OCT
is prone to noise, and moreover this noise is depth-dependent. In a similar spirit comes a specific
feature of shadowing, namely, under a particle or feature that is a strong scatterer, the intensity
of (coherent) light may be too small to permit the detection of further scatterers. If the motion
of the sample moves a particle from a hidden to a visible position or vice-versa, registration may
not provide a faithful account for motion. In such cases, which resemble the shadows cast by
very absorbing features in x-ray tomography [229], a mask should be introduced, which would
correspond to the visible “horizon.” Any variation that affects a position that is beyond the
horizon should not be utilized. This may be compared to edge effects in classical DIC [99] when a
feature present in the region of interest for the reference image is pushed outside the field of view
in the deformed image, or conversely appears in the deformed image without being visible in the
reference one. Using a frame to delineate a reliable ROI is a good strategy. The difficulty in the
case of OCT is that the frame edge should be based on the total scattered intensity rather than
being at fixed depth. Thus a direct modeling of OCT should be used to decide on the trusted part
of the image and hence of the corresponding kinematics.
4.4.5 Conclusions
Many different modalities exist. Each one with its specific artifacts that, to some extent, can
be modelled. It is through this modeling that progress can be made in the interpretation of the
images so that artifacts, rather than being a limitation with uncontrolled consequences, can be
tamed to be as transparent as possible to DVC analyses, even if not taken into consideration in
the reconstruction of 3D images.
5 Challenges
5.1 Material microstructure
The first generic difficulty with 3D imaging is that the actual microstructure of the material
can hardly be modified in the bulk in order to enhance contrast. Some attempts were made
(e.g., by adding particles [18, 77, 25, 146] or revealing grain boundaries [135] for x-ray μCT) but
at the expense of changing the behavior of the investigated material. This is particularly true
when studying ductile of brittle fracture [94]. Model materials were also considered for which the
attenuation contrast was sufficient [207, 69]. Natural materials such as wood (thanks to its cellular
microstructure) enabled DVC analyses to be successfully performed [68, 70]. Similarly, low density
wood fiberboards could be studied via DVC [222].
     This is a major difference with 2D DIC, where a homogeneous or transparent material can
always be painted with a speckle pattern, where the experimentalist can fine-tune the homogene-
ity, pattern correlation length, and contrast more or less at will. In synchrotron facilities, the use
of phase contrast can enhance the differences between material phases, and make them visible
on the x-ray radiographs. Variants of this technique can be used on lab scale tomograph with
polychromatic sources. Thus, this difficulty pushes DVC to deal with microstructures that can
be very faint, with very few contrasting phases, possibly with a contrast that is not very salient
as compared to reconstruction artifacts (Figure 2). Robustness when dealing with such sparse
contrast textures is a major challenge that limits a priori the recourse to DVC for well contrasted
materials (e.g., biological tissues [209, 12, 199, 195, 194, 242], foams [207, 197] and cellular materi-
als [68]) or material with a large proportion of inclusions [127, 69, 133]. It is worth noting that
even for very low contrasted materials such as aluminum alloys, DVC analyses were shown to be
feasible [156] and yielded strain fields whose analysis was very precious in the understanding of
the flat-to-slant transition in ductile tearing [158, 157].
     The occurrence of reconstruction artifacts (such as rings) becomes very detrimental when the
contrast due to the natural microstructure of the material is as poor as discussed previously (see
Sections 4.1 and 4.4). It is therefore very important to address these cases in order to make DVC
useful for a broader class of materials. Let us stress that if numerically filtering images prior to
a DVC analysis (e.g., ring artifacts can be significantly reduced [183]) is always an option, it
is safer to include this filter in the similarity measure, or to leave as an unknown the effect to
be filtered out, in order to validate the consistency of the assumption(s) made, and check that
the filter did not affect the true microstructure. Last, let us note that when some information is
discarded and still an acceptable spatial resolution is sought, suited regularization strategies are
very helpful [199, 102, 195, 115, 123, 122].
5.2 DVC algorithms
DVC calculations are becoming very involved even for local approaches because of the large size
of volumes to be registered. A critical aspect is related to the initialization of the DVC code. One
strategy used in local DVC is the global starting point and the information transfer approach.
The locations of displacement measurement are ordered by the distance from a global starting
point. That point is given special handling, possibly with user intervention. Transferring results
to nearby points creates reliable starting points for the final optimization steps.
    Multiscale approaches, as discussed in Section 3.3 are a very convenient way for initialization
purposes. Such schemes speed up the DVC calculations, and more importantly, they often prevent
the DVC code to be trapped in secondary minima. This type of strategy is particularly important
when dealing with large deformations [197, 97]. An alternative route is to start DVC calculations
with large sub-volumes or elements and gradually refine [74] by initializing the new calculations
with the previously converged solution. In the case of large deformations, there is always the
possibility of updating the reference configuration, which becomes the deformed configuration of
the previous calculation. So-called incremental DVC procedures have been implemented [103, 30,
157]. It is worth remembering that displacement fields have then to be interpolated in order to
have access to cumulative displacement fields. Special care should be taken when computing strain
fields, in particular in the large transformation framework (i.e., depending on the type of updating
strategy, Lagrangian or Eulerian strain descriptors will be computed [223]). Alternatively, the mesh
can be advected in order to make the nodes follow the same material points.
    The computation of the deformed volume corrected by the current estimate of the displacement
field requires gray level interpolations to be performed for all voxels belonging to the ROI, and
more than once for local approaches with overlapping subvolumes. The algorithms being iterative,
such operations are repeated numerous times. To avoid such repeated interpolations lookup tables
can be pre-computed [170] in order to accelerate DVC runs.
    Local approaches have been shown to scale well when parallelized using multiple CPUs and
multiple CPU threads. Likewise, these approaches are a natural fit for the massively multi-
threaded computation power of graphics processing units (GPUs) [122, 7, 75, 235]. Since DVC
is usually concerned with very large data sets, the number of measured kinematic degrees of free-
dom are generally numerous. For global DVC it has been proposed to describe displacement fields
in separated forms for spatial dimensions. Such a specific form can be introduced in the formal-
ism of DIC/DVC, retaining only the dominant mode repeatedly until the residual level has been
exhausted [80]. This way of handling the problem is written within the framework of PGD [39,
120] in which the different modes are introduced and the separated form is inserted directly in
the variational formulation of DVC. Another route may be provided by domain decomposition
methods applied to DVC. It has been followed in DIC analyses [176], but was not yet applied to
DVC. However, because most of the computation cost is related to the correction by the measured
displacement field of the deformed volume the CPU time gain is not spectacular, up to now, in
comparison with standard implementations. When optimized global frameworks also scale nearly
perfectly for multi-threading [121]. This is achieved by grouping voxels locally and sending each
group to a different CPU thread.
    Four dimensional analyses, namely, performing DVC analyses over space and time have begun
very recently [93]. Time regularization will have some interest provided a sufficient number of
scans is available in the analysis. It will also make the calculations even more involved and some
of the above routes may turn out to be very useful (e.g., PGD [165]). It is believed that projection-
based approaches are more suitable since they precisely provide much more temporal information
than using fully reconstructed volumes at different levels of load.
5.3 Identification and validation
The validation of material models using tomographic data still is in its infancy (see Section 3.4).
This first step is already very challenging for various reasons. First, in-situ (or ex-situ) testing
is not yet performed routinely. The fact that more and more labs are equipped with in house
tomographs will democratize experiments in such environments. Second, DVC itself has to be
mastered in the case of difficult to very difficult microstructures (e.g., with small volume fractions
of secondary phases [156, 158]). The simulations at the scale of 3D images are also very demanding
in particular when nonlinear constitutive laws are selected.
    Figure 21 illustrates one possible route to validate numerical simulations at the microscale.
Once sets of tomographic data are available (or by any other 3D imaging means), they can
be used first to create meshes that are made compatible with the underlying microstructure
revealed by 3D imaging [144]. When such meshes are created, finite element simulations can be
run. However, there is still no control on their predictive character. The latter can be assessed
by comparing computed displacement fields with their measured counterparts (via DVC). The
distance between these two fields, when probed with respect to the measurement uncertainties,
enables for relative comparisons between experimental and simulated data, the true solution being
unknown. One additional step is to prescribe the measured boundary conditions to the numerical
model. As underlined in Section 3.4, such approach is crucial in the validation step [206]. More
importantly, it allows gray level residuals to be assessed not only for standard DVC analyses,
but also for numerical simulations [29]. These residuals can be evaluated independently for DVC
and numerical simulations. The two approaches are therefore probed individually and their merits
(and shortcomings) are assessed in an absolute manner.
                            T4gmeshg
                            generation
                                            g
                                           T4gmesh        C8/T4g
                             C8-DVC                                        FEgsimulations
                                                          interp.
                                                                      {δp}
                                     F
                                               uC8                                        uT4 ,{FT4}
                                     F
                                                                               {δF}
                              100gμm
                 3Dgvolumes
                      +
                                                                                           gI-DVC
                    {Fmeas}
                                              ρDVC                ρFE
Fig. 21 Schematic representation of methods that can be used for validation and identification purposes via
numerical simulations at the microscale (adapted from Ref. [29])
    Identification, which is the next step when validation is deemed insufficient, requires the use of
numerous simulations in order to calibrate (or update) parameters of material models (Figure 21).
Many identification techniques have now reached a reasonable degree of maturity in simpler
situations (e.g., when using DIC data [5, 83]), which makes them good candidates to be tested in
the context of DVC analyses. Yet they are challenged more severely in the context of 3D imaging
because of generally higher measurement uncertainties in comparison with regular DIC. This
observation may explain why very few studies have, up to now (see Section 3.4), been devoted to
such endeavors.
    The simulations become very demanding when microstructures are described very finely thanks
to tomographic data (i.e., tomography or laminography typically give access to Gvoxel-volumes).
For instance, each reconstructed volume can be obtained from a set of 6, 000 × 12-Mpixel radio-
graphs (i.e., 144 Gbytes per considered step for 16-bit digitizations). For in-situ experiments the
typical number of scans now routinely exceeds ten, which leads to more than 1 Tbyte of data
for a single experiment. The mere handling and visualization of such enormous amounts of data
becomes challenging. Further, their processing is also becoming tedious. Model/data reduction
strategies are one possible route to follow in order to ease and make the exploitation of such ex-
perimental data far more efficient [165]. Similarly, much more developments should be performed
regarding time and memory savings.
5.4 4D kinematic measurements from fast tomography
One direction for addressing the challenge of resolving small time intervals has already been
discussed in the introduction. Stupendous progress has been achieved in ultra-fast tomography
scanned at synchrotron beamlines. Even crack propagation followed at 20 Hz showed the potential
of such techniques for mechanical properties of materials. However, surprisingly, very few published
studies made use of DVC to translate microstructure changes into 4D displacement (or velocity)
fields. One exception though is due to one team that studied lithium batteries in operando [178,
65]. In these examples, DVC could inform on the strains, and hence ageing conditions under
electrochemical changes, and finally provided a clear picture of the performance loss of such
batteries.
    It is nowadays a safe bet that fast tomography will open new avenues in experimental mechan-
ics. Yet this remains for the most part a virgin and unexplored land. It is worth noting that as
the turntable rotates faster, it may induce vibrations, thereby inducing additional artifacts (due
to spurious motions) that will need to be accounted for at the reconstruction stage.
    This hardware progress is however not an answer to the avalanche of data produced by in-situ
experiments. On the contrary, this is an excellent way of generating more data in a short time. In
the remaining part of this section different directions are listed, which give solid hopes on ways to
actually decrease the needed experimental data, and hence achieve a better efficiency but not from
a better accumulation of data. The different proposed routes deal with the ability to compress
information with no (or a very modest) loss that have been proposed in the recent years. The first
one, Section 5.5, aims at reducing the number of projections for reconstructing a tomographic
volume, at the expense of formulating simple but generic assumptions on the microstructure. The
second one, Section 5.6, is focussed on the displacement field and makes use of model reduction
strategies, also devised initially to compress information with as little loss as possible, and with
a control of the quality of the “reduction” performance.
5.5 Volume data / duration of acquisition
One limitation comes from the enormous amount of information in 3D images. This challenge is
first met at the acquisition stage where a complete scan may require up to one hour or more in some
cases, duration such that creep/relaxation may be responsible for a significant motion between
the first and last radiographs. Thus one may be tempted to under-sample the orientations and
collect fewer projections. The latter option is extremely appealing as it allows for much faster data
acquisitions. However, without additional care, such an option generally involves very pronounced
artifacts that differ from one reconstruction to the next and thereby compromise DVC.
     However, numerous studies following the seminal contribution of Candès et al. [34] have shown
that the use of some regularization strategies (and in particular the minimization of the total
variation, TV) can compensate for the missing information when very few projections are acquired
and provide excellent reconstructions. The key to the formidable success of such methods is the
exploitation of some sparsity in the description of the to-be-reconstructed material. For instance,
the chosen test case for the initial illustration of the benefit of TV-regularization was the Shepp-
Logan phantom, a simple mathematical model of an idealized brain image, composed of few
“phases,” so that the boundary of those different phases, where the total variation is non-zero,
was indeed sparse. And this sparsity is favored by using an L1 norm of the gradient (i.e., the total
variation, TV), yet preserving convexity of the problem.
    The reliability of such approaches for medical diagnostics has sometimes been questioned [92]
since, in this field in particular, it is essential to guarantee that the prior information brought by
the regularization is valid (for instance, the presence of smooth gradients would invalidate this
approach). Yet, the remarkable success of TV-regularization cannot be ignored, as having only
few phases in a material is quite common. Some care is to be exercised, in order to apply such
an approach, and in particular, correcting beam hardening is essential as this effect introduces a
gradual change of gray levels from the boundary to the bulk of the sample, an effect that is not
compatible with a discrete set of gray levels.
    Operationally, a very elegant method, Discrete Algebraic Reconstruction Technique (or DART),
has been proposed by Batenburg and Sijbers [9, 10]. It consists of coupling an algebraic recon-
struction technique (SIRT) with a filtering of the reconstructed field in order to meet a constraint
on the existence of a given number of phases (say only two for a binary reconstruction). The
beauty of this algorithm is that it focuses only on the region in the image where some uncertainty
remains and capitalizes the more secure determinations. Moreover, because of the interweaving of
these two steps (SIRT and filtering), the approach has a rather low intrusiveness. Finally, DART
has been also enriched with TV-regularization (TVR-DART), which adds some “surface tension”
at interfaces [244]. Such an algorithm has the potential to achieve a very accurate reconstruction
with a limited number of projections.
    One may fear that as the number of projections is reduced, the reconstructed volume will
display progressively more uncertainty in its microstructure. Actually, this is not quite the case.
When the quality of the reconstruction is studied versus the number of projections, it is observed
that the problem displays an abrupt “phase transition,” from a solvable problem where the re-
construction quality is very good to an unsolvable problem, where no solution is obtained [53].
It is difficult to theoretically qualify this abrupt transition, and determine the minimum number
of projections required to reconstruct a solution, as it depends on the quantity of information
present in the object to be reconstructed, and hence also on the additional information bought
about by the regularization. However, even a very conservative estimate allows several orders of
magnitude to be gained in acquisition time.
    In the safe convergence side, even if too little information is available for classical reconstruc-
tion, it is important to note that each projection has a proper spatial resolution, and hence in
order to achieve a proper match of the reconstructed volume with the available projections, an
accurate determination of the microstructure features is called for. Therefore, the degradation of
the reconstruction quality should not be imagined to be a progressive fuzziness of the boundaries
(this would be forbidden by regularization). Rather, a more appropriate schematic picture is that
the reconstruction is either excellent, or simply inaccessible. To the best of the authors’ knowl-
edge, the combination of regularized reconstruction, say using TVR-DART, and DVC has never
been attempted (at least in published form). Such an association appears intuitively adverse to
the usual requirement for accuracy. However, for the above mentioned reasons, intuition may not
be of safe guidance. The above suggestion is a mere speculation at this stage.
5.6 Projection-based DVC: fast 4D kinematic measurement
The proposed approach to deal with fast 4D (space and time) measurement is called Projection-
based Digital Volume Correlation (P-DVC) [124, 213]. Instead of working with reconstructed vol-
umes as in standard DVC (whose acquisition time is one of the major limitation of CT, especially
in laboratory facilities), it aims to measure the 4D displacement field from the comparison of a
series of 2D projections (i.e., the projection at an angle θ(t) of the 3D microstructure) acquired
at different times, t, angles, θ(t)) and loadings F (t). One reference 3D volume (using classical
means) is assumed to be available in order to compute the correction term.
     The similarity measure is here the squared difference of projections (since a white Gaussian
noise is generally valid for projections). One set of projections is that of the deformed volumes
p(r, t) at different loading steps (just one projection per loading step) and the other one is the
corresponding projected reference image corrected by the displacement field, u. Registration (P-
DVC) consists of minimizing this similarity measure
                                        X                                     2
                          TPDVC [u] =        Pθ(t) [f (x − u(x, t))] − p(r, t)                   (43)
                                         r,t
where Pθ is the projection operator in the direction of angle θ(t), and r the detector coordinate.
     As for usual DVC, in order to validate the procedure, the 2D residual field shows what has not
been captured by the kinematic model (e.g., noise, artifacts of the detector, poor convergence,
model error). It is defined as
                              ρ(r, t; u) = Pθ(t) [f (x − u(x, t))] − p(r, t)                     (44)
5.6.1 Space-time regularization
It is proposed to analyze the deformation of a sample using a reduced basis composed of Ns space
shape functions φ(x) (e.g., from a finite element mesh) and Nt time functions χ(t) (e.g., Dirac
distribution if no temporal regularization (free) is considered, polynomials, piecewise linear, or of
higher degree)
                                              XNt X Ns
                                    u(x, t) =          uij χi (t)φj (x)                          (45)
                                              i=1 j=1
where uij are the amplitudes of the displacement field associated with the chosen basis. Note
that the time basis also offers the opportunity to include the time history coming from another
modality. For instance, in the present case, a force measurement, F (t), is available. If the sample
were linearly elastic, F (t) would be naturally relevant. One can also hybridize different signals
(e.g., force and time), and any nonlinear functions thereof.
    In the case of a large number of unknowns, the computation of the Ns × Nt degrees of freedom
may be costly. The so-called DIC-PGD framework has been developed to directly extract the
dominant displacement modes (using space [175, 80] or space-time [111] separation) and provides
big savings. However, for the sake of simplicity, this option is not followed herein. The minimization
of TPDVC with respect to the displacement parameters {u} is performed using Newton’s descent
method. This procedure requires the computation of the gradient and Hessian of TPDVC . They
are built from the sensitivities
                                sij (r, t) = Pθ(t) [χi (t)φj (x) · ∇feu (x)]                      (46)
where feu (x) is the reference volume advected with the current (Eulerian) determination of the
displacement field u, feu (x) = f (x−u(x, t)). (Note that in contrast with the previous presentation
DVC, the reference image is to be advected to match the deformed volume projections, as only the
latter is known, and not the deformed volume itself.) After each evaluation of the displacement
corrections, or equivalently of its parameterization, {δu} from a known displacement {u}(n) such
as {u}(n+1) = {u}(n) + {δu}, a correction of the 3D volume is performed so that the previous
equation is used without approximation. The Hessian of TPDVC with respect to {u} and the right
hand side vector are written as
                                      X
                             Nijkl =       sij (r, t)skl (r, t)
                                       r,t
                                      X                                                         (47)
                               nij =        Pθ(t) [fe(x)u ] − p(r, t) sij (r, t)
                                       r,t
and thus one iteration is obtained by solving the following linear problem
                                              [N ]{δu} = {n}                                      (48)
5.6.2 Experimental test case
The test case for this study is an in-situ tensile test on a ductile cast iron sample. The geometry
of the sample is shown in Figure 22(a). (Similar samples were studied in Refs. [219, 93].) The
central part (rectangular cross section of 1.31×0.91 mm2 ) is thinned with a radius of 20 mm
in order to ensure that the specimen will fail in the ligament area and not in the grips. The
sample, which was mounted in an in-situ tensile testing machine similar to that used by Buffière
et al. [26] (Figure 22(b)), was scanned at LMT’s lab-tomograph (180 kV, 130 μA, W target) at
full resolution was equal to 10.4 μm.
               (a)                               (b)                                    (c)
Fig. 22 In-situ tensile test with (a) the dog-bone sample used in the procedure with the regularization element,
                     O                                                                      O
(b) the setup with 1 the testing machine with the carbon fiber composite loading tube, 2 the x-ray source,
O3 the x-ray detector, and (c) a projection of the sample at angle θ k        °
                                                                       = −150 for step 110 with the projected
spatial degrees of freedom
    Two flat-fields and one dark-field were acquired after conditioning and before the experiment
in order to perform flat-field corrections. Each radiograph was averaged over 5 frames in order
to reduce acquisition noise. The radiographs were cropped to a definition of 954×432 pixels so
as to concentrate on the central part of the sample. The projections were obtained after flat-field
normalization and standard beam hardening corrections with a third order polynomial [91] due
to the high absorption of cast iron. Reconstructions and projections were performed with the
ASTRA toolbox [227] making use of the Feldkamp-Davis-Kress (FDK) reconstruction procedure
suited for cone beams [61].
    The in-situ experiment consisted of three phases:
 – pre-load to 250 N in order to remove the backlash that would introduce rigid body motions;
 – complete scan of the reference state (250 N) that consisted of 600 radiographs captured at
    equally spaced angles ranging over a full 360° revolution. This scan took about 22 min. to be
    acquired;
 – continuous rotation of the sample with 50 acquisitions per revolution. 127 loading steps were
    captured during 300 s. The first 50 steps (i.e., 1 full rotation) were performed at constant
    load and were used to quantify the uncertainty. The remaining (starting from time step 50)
    were carried out with a continuous load change (from 250 to 750 N), which was controlled at
    a constant stroke rate of 2 μm/s.
    The force measurement is shown in Figure 23 and could be used for future identification
purposes.
Fig. 23 127 force measurements of the tensile test starting from 250 N. A first complete revolution is performed
at constant load, and the load is subsequently increased up to failure. The reference tomographic scan is acquired
just before time 0.
5.6.3 Results of the 4D spatiotemporal procedure
It is proposed to focus on the central part of the sample where large plastic strains are expected.
A first evaluation of the transverse mean rigid body motions (i.e., perpendicular to the tensile
axis) that occurred during the test is performed before displacement measurement. These rigid
body motions are corrected from the projections. (This part is not detailed but it uses the same
philosophy as previously presented).
    Because the behavior is expected to be that of a plastic hinge (i.e., uniform displacement
in the top and bottom part of the sample and large strains in the center), the chosen space
regularization for the vertical displacement is to use one single element (with 8 nodes of size
200 × 200 × 200 voxels), each composed of a single degree of freedom, vertical displacement,
with inside a trilinear interpolation, i.e., a reduced version of a C8 element where transverse
displacements are neglected (since the mean transverse translation has already been corrected,
this assumption neglects the transverse strains). In the top and bottom parts, the (uniform)
displacement is chosen as a constant extension from the central cube face by continuity. The
element is located in the central part as shown in Figure 22(a).
    The time regularization is based on second order polynomials of the force measurement. A
linear interpolation starting at time step 0 is added and another linear function with 0 value
during time step [0,49] and linear during the load increase part
                                     χ1 (t) = 1
                                     χ2 (t) = F (t)
                                     χ3 (t) = F (t)2                                            (49)
                                     χ4 (t) = t
                                     χ5 (t) = max(0, (t − 49))
    The 4D problem is composed of 40 degrees of freedom (i.e., 5 time and 8 space shape functions,
χ and φ respectively) and focuses on the region of interest corresponding to the projected cube
element. Figure 24 shows the residual field change before and after registration. The residuals are
rescaled to the dynamic range of the reference projection. It can be seen that a large part of the
residual has been erased meaning that the kinematics has been well captured.
                             (a)                                               (b)
                                                    °
Fig. 24 Projected residual field at angle θk = −150 for step 110 (a) with no displacement field correction and
(b) after the correction of the measured displacement. The black lines are the projections of the central cube
element. Note that the gray level color bar (where gray levels are scaled to the full projection dynamic range)
differs by a factor 2
     The measured displacement for the 8 nodes at each loading step is shown in Figure 25(a). At
the end of the experiment, the cube has been stretched in tension by about 11 voxels, or about
110 μm. The gray level residual is quantified, in the region of interest (see Figure 25(b)), by the
signal to noise ratio (SNR). The raw difference of projections leads to an SNR of 11.0 dB. The
periodicity of about 25 time steps, which is seen in the initial residual, corresponds to the angles
where the edges of the sample are aligned with the x-ray beam, namely, where the sensitivity
to the radial displacement field is high. After the transverse translation correction, it increases
to 23.4 dB. Finally, when the axial strain is accounted for as above described, the SNR reaches
26.8 dB.
                                  (a)                                               (b)
Fig. 25 (a) Measured displacement of the 8 nodes. During the first revolution (t ≤ 50) a slight compression is
visible, which is attributed to a relaxation phenomenon. In the increasing load part, the central region is stretched
                                      μ
by approximately 11 voxels (or 110 m). (b) SNR history for the initial residual fields (1), the residuals corrected
by (x, y) rigid body translations (2), and the final residual fields with all corrections (3)
     The 3D displacement for the 127 loading steps has been captured. Run in 300 s, this 4D
procedure based on radiographs offers a fast measurement of the experiment with a gain of three
orders of magnitude as compared to standard techniques. The entire procedure, including the
experiment itself (after the initial tomography of the reference volume) and its analysis, is per-
formed in approximately 10-15 minutes. A more complex and refined mesh could be used in order
to characterize the kinematics more thoroughly. However, in order to avoid the increase of the
number of degrees of freedom, regularization based on a mechanical model or other experimental
observations would be welcome. Moreover, in 4D analyses, a proper generalized decomposition
(PGD) approach is an alternative to focus on the most relevant modes and helps keeping the
number de degrees of freedom at a decent level [111].
5.6.4 Perspectives
The above example showed that a tremendous potential exists either to save time for getting the
same information, or rather, to increase the time resolution at the same experimental time cost.
Such a gain is obtained from a better definition of what is known and what is not, starting from
the ultimate goal (e.g., mechanical properties), and progressively assembling from the accessible
experimental data and the modeling a complete picture. Moreover, even if redundancy is reduced,
as the primary information itself (i.e., the set of radiographs) has been severely deflated, it remains
high enough to validate the assumed prior knowledge from residuals.
    Stepping back to get a broader perspective, it is worth underlining the parallel that can be
drawn in the two previous sections 5.5 and 5.6:
 – The former aimed at reconstructing the 3D microstructure from few projections, and required
    the introduction of prior knowledge on microstructure to allow for reconstruction with too few
    projections using standard tools.
 – The latter aimed at reconstructing the 3D kinematic field from few projections, and required
    the introduction of prior knowledge on the mechanical behavior to allow for reconstruction
    with too few projections using standard tools.
    In both of these sections, more than two orders of magnitude gains were achieved on complex
and realistic examples. It is to be stressed how remarkable is such a progress. Very few fields of
research have experienced such a fantastic and sudden advance. Moreover, this huge gain did not
originate from better equipments or facilities, but rather from a more intricate use of modeling
and experiment. Such improvements are believed to be more the rule than the exception, and
hence it is a unique opportunity for such 4D analyses to give a major impetus to the field of
mechanics of materials (and structures).
6 Summary
Over the last two decades, DVC has been made operational and reliable for very large classes of
materials, wider than originally considered, and together with the progress of tomography and
more generally 3D imaging modalities, it is today a very powerful experimental technique serving
in particular the field of mechanics of materials. Commercial codes are now available, for local
and global approaches, which makes DVC a tool that does not necessarily require the user to
implement their own code. Further, the technique is gradually adopted by industry in the fields
of nondestructive evaluation and mechanics of materials. This trend will require good practices
to be formalized and possibly standards to be introduced.
    During the present decade, 3D imaging has been made more easily accessible thanks to the
development of lab tomographs. X-ray microtomography has become the 3D microscope that
enables mechanical tests to be performed in-situ. Coupled with DVC, they give access to a wealth
of information that will enable progress in the understanding of material microstructures and
their changes, as well as their mechanical behavior. One critical aspect is the way 3D images are
reconstructed, and all the artifacts associated with the acquisition process during mechanical tests.
DVC is a very powerful tool to reveal them and even propose some corrections. These observations
call for careful and systematic uncertainty and bias quantifications that not only depend on the
contrast in the images but also on the physical and mathematical processes involved in their
reconstructions.
    In order to explicitly account for acquisition noise, different similarity measures were discussed.
They provide a probabilistic framework to image registration, which is not limited to DVC. It
was shown how local and global approaches could be retrieved from such a framework. Further,
the reconstructed volumes essentially display white noise properties (provided the radiographs
themselves do) so that minimization criteria based on the sum of the squared differences are quasi
optimal in terms of their least sensitivity to acquisition noise.
    Ex-situ and more often in-situ tests have become a growing area in the field of solid mechanics.
Commercial (i.e., general purpose) testing systems are now available. The specific conditions
associated with 3D imaging means will require the experimentalist to more often design their own
loading devices in order to be compatible with the testing environment. Two options are possible.
First the testing machine (and the sample) is put on the turntable of the imaging system. Second,
the imaging system is built around testing machines (as the patient in a medical scanner). This
second route is more delicate, but not impossible, when the protection to radiation has been
carefully implemented.
    In the majority of reported results so far, (local or global) DVC was used as a stand-alone
technique that measures displacement fields. Strain fields are then deduced from the raw (displace-
ment) measurements. This operation has to be well-mastered and understood since interpolations
are required and remain usually implicit for the user. Even though such fields are prevalent for
mechanical analyses, special care is to be exercised in their interpretation, in particular, in terms
of uncertainties and associated correlations. Both kinematic fields carry a lot of information on
the experiment per se and on its mechanical interpretation. When the user does not want to add
a priori information, these general purpose codes provide a lot of qualitative and quantitative
information about the test of interest. Until the end of the last decade, it was the only way DVC
was used [11].
    More recently, it has been shown that measured data can also be integrated in numerical sim-
ulations and vice versa. The introduction of mechanical modeling in the measurement procedure
from regularization techniques is also a very powerful way of continuously tuning discretization
effects of the kinematics and simultaneously shaking hands with the further exploitation of kine-
matic data for mechanical behavior identification. As stressed through various examples, residual
fields are very precious to validate all the assumptions used in DVC measurements, and to assess
whether the partition between “explained” data, noise and artifacts is satisfactory. In such ap-
proaches DVC is not a stand-alone tool, but one link out of many forming a chain between in-situ
mechanical testing and mechanical identification and validation.
    Further broadening the range of applications will require in situ experiments to be performed
faster and possibly uninterrupted. Currently, lab tomographs require acquisition times lasting at
least tens of minutes, which means that the load and displacement have to remain constant in
order to ensure good reconstructions. Thanks to the beam power of third generation synchrotrons,
subsecond scans are possible with the use of high speed cameras. However, spinning the sample and
the loading device faster will inevitably reduce the quality of reconstructions if spurious motions
are not accounted for. Another route is provided by spacetime analyses in which radiographs will
be acquired on the fly. The latter ones will rely on projection-based DVC. It is envisioned that
such techniques will open a new era of 4D tests that are performed in similar ways as conventional
mechanical tests. This development will also imply new DVC implementations and maturing that
couple reconstructions and displacement measurements.
     The benefit of all the above mentioned approaches (be they local, global, regularized or inte-
grated) is huge, and all methods and tools are readily available for the blossoming of 4D in-situ
mechanical tests. These 4D analyses are now facing the massive amount of data to be processed
efficiently, and that comes together with the impressive development of tomographic facilities
and lab equipments. Unique opportunities were also mentioned, coming in particular from ap-
plied mathematics through concepts in the vein of “compressed sensing” [35, 52] or tools such as
“model reduction” [4].
Acknowledgements Different parts of the above mentioned examples were funded by Agence Nationale de
la Recherche under the grants ANR-10-EQPX-37 (MATMECA), ANR-14-CE07-0034-02 (COMINSIDE), Saint
Gobain, SAFRAN Aircraft Engines and SAFRAN Tech. It is a pleasure to acknowledge the support of BPI France
within the DICCIT project, and ESRF for MA1006, MI1149, MA1631,MA1932, and ME1366 experiments.
     Fruitful discussions with Profs. Marc Bernacki, Claude Boccara, Pierre-Olivier Bouchard, Jean-Yves Buffière,
Stephen Hall, Per-Lennart Larsson, Eric Maire, Cino Viggiani, and Drs. Jérôme Adrien, Edward Andó, Do-
minique Bernard, Xavier Brajer, René Gy, Lukas Helfen, Thilo Morgeneyer, Amir Nahas, Estelle Parra, Mehdi
Rebai, Julien Schneider are acknowledged.
References
  1. J. Adam, M. Klinkmueller, G. Schreurs, and B. Wieneke. Quantitative 3D strain analysis in analogue ex-
     periments simulating tectonic deformation: Integration of X-ray computed tomography and digital volume
     correlation techniques. JOURNAL OF STRUCTURAL GEOLOGY, 55:127–149, 2013.
  2. R.J. Adrian. Twenty years of particle image velocimetry. EXPERIMENTS IN FLUIDS, 39:159–169, 2005.
  3. E. Andò, S. Hall, G. Viggiani, J. Desrues, and P. Bésuelle. Experimental micromechanics: grain-scale
     observation of sand deformation. GÉOTECHNIQUE LETTERS, 2(3):107–112, 2012.
  4. A.C. Antoulas, D.C. Sorensen, and S. Gugercin. A survey of model reduction methods for large-scale
     systems. CONTEMPORARY MATHEMATICS, 280:193–220, 2001.
  5. S. Avril, M. Bonnet, A.S. Bretelle, M. Grédiac, F. Hild, P. Ienny, F. Latourte, D. Lemosse, S. Pagano,
     E. Pagnacco, and F. Pierron. Overview of identification methods of mechanical parameters based on
     full-field measurements. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 48(4):381–402, 2008.
  6. J. Banhart, A. Borbély, K. Dzieciol, F. Garcia-Moreno, I. Manke, N. Kardjilov, A. R. Kaysser-Pyzalla,
     M. Strobl, and W. Treimer. X-ray and neutron imaging–Complementary techniques for materials sci-
     ence and engineering: Dedicated to Professor Dr. H.-P. Degischer on the occasion of his 65th birthday.
     INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF MATERIALS RESEARCH, 101(9):1069–1079, 2010.
  7. E. Bar-Kochba, J. Toyjanova, E. Andrews, K.-S. Kim, and C. Franck. A Fast Iterative Digital Volume
     Correlation Algorithm for Large Deformations. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 55(1):261–274, 2015.
  8. J. Baruchel, J.Y. Buffière, E. Maire, P. Merle, and G. Peix, editors. X-Ray Tomography in Material
     Sciences. Hermès Science, Paris (France), 2000.
  9. K. J. Batenburg and J. Sijbers. DART: a fast heuristic algebraic reconstruction algorithm for discrete
     tomography. In IEEE International Conference on Image Processing (ICIP 2007), volume 4, pages IV–
     133, 2007.
 10. K. J. Batenburg and J. Sijbers. DART: a practical reconstruction algorithm for discrete tomography. IEEE
     TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, 20(9):2542–2553, 2011.
 11. B.K. Bay. Methods and applications of digital volume correlation. JOURNAL OF STRAIN ANALYSIS
     FOR ENGINEERING DESIGN, 43(8):745–760, 2008.
 12. B.K. Bay, T.S. Smith, D.P. Fyhrie, and M. Saad. Digital volume correlation: Three-dimensional strain
     mapping using X-ray tomography. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 39(3):217–226, 1999.
 13. E. Beaurepaire, A.C. Boccara, M. Lebec, L. Blanchot, and H. Saint-Jalmes. Full-field optical coherence
     microscopy. OPTICS LETTERS, 23(4):244–246, 1998.
 14. A. Benoit, S. Guérard, B. Gillet, G. Guillot, F. Hild, D. Mitton, J.-N. Périé, and S. Roux. 3D analysis from
     micro-MRI during in situ compression on cancellous bone. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 42(14):2381–
     2386, 2009.
 15. H. Berek, U. Ballaschk, C.G. Aneziris, K. Losch, and K. Schladitz. The correlation of local deformation
     and stress-assisted local phase transformations in MMC foams. MATERIALS CHARACTERIZATION,
     107:139–148, 2015.
 16. G. Besnard, F. Hild, and S. Roux. “Finite-element” displacement fields analysis from digital images:
     Application to Portevin-Le Chatelier bands. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 46:789–803, 2006.
 17. T. Bormann, G. Schulz, H. Deyhle, F. Beckmann, M. de Wild, J. Kueffer, C. Muench, W. Hoffmann, and
     B. Mueller. Combining micro computed tomography and three-dimensional registration to evaluate local
     strains in shape memory scaffolds. ACTA BIOMATERIALIA, 10(2):1024–1034, 2014.
 18. M. Bornert, J.-M. Chaix, P. Doumalin, J.-C. Dupré, T. Fournel, D. Jeulin, E. Maire, M. Moreaud, and
     H. Moulinec. Mesure tridimensionnelle de champs cinématiques par imagerie volumique pour l’analyse des
     matériaux et des structures. INSTRUMENTATION, MESURE, MÉTROLOGIE, 4:43–88, 2004.
 19. G. Borstnar, F. Gillard, M.N. Mavrogordato, I. Sinclair, and S.M. Spearing. Three-dimensional deformation
     mapping of Mode I interlaminar crack extension in particle-toughened interlayers. ACTA MATERIALIA,
     103:63–70, 2016.
 20. A. Bouterf, J. Adrien, E. Maire, X. Brajer, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Failure Mechanisms of Plasterboard in
     Nail Pull Test Determined by X-ray Microtomography and Digital Volume Correlation. EXPERIMENTAL
     MECHANICS, 56(8):1427–1437, 2016.
 21. A. Bouterf, J. Adrien, E. Maire, X. Brajer, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Identification of the crushing behavior of
     brittle foam: From indentation to oedometric tests. JOURNAL OF THE MECHANICS AND PHYSICS
     OF SOLIDS, 98:181–200, 2017.
 22. A. Bouterf, E. Maire, S. Roux, F. Hild, X. Brajer, E. Gouillart, and E. Boller. Analysis of compaction in
     brittle foam with multiscale indentation tests. Submitted for publication, 2017.
 23. A. Bouterf, S. Roux, F. Hild, J. Adrien, E. Maire, and S. Meille. Digital Volume Correlation Applied to
     X-ray Tomography Images from Spherical Indentation Tests on Lightweight Gypsum. STRAIN, 50(5):444–
     453, 2014.
 24. A.I. Bowler, B.W. Drinkwater, and P.D. Wilcox. An investigation into the feasibility of internal strain
     measurement in solids by correlation of ultrasonic images. PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY
     A-MATHEMATICAL PHYSICAL AND ENGINEERING SCIENCES, 467(2132):2247–2270, 2011.
 25. R. Brault, A. Germaneau, J.-C. Dupré, P. Doumalin, S. Mistou, and M. Fazzini. In-situ Analysis of
     Laminated Composite Materials by X-ray Micro-Computed Tomography and Digital Volume Correlation.
     EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 53(7):1143–1151, 2013.
 26. J.-Y. Buffière, E. Maire, J. Adrien, J.-P. Masse, and E. Boller. In Situ Experiments with X-ray Tomography:
     an Attractive Tool for Experimental Mechanics. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 50(3):289–305, 2010.
 27. J.Y. Buffière, E. Maire, P. Cloetens, G. Lormand, and R. Fougères. Characterisation of internal damage in
     a MMCp using X-ray synchrotron phase contrast microtomography. ACTA MATERIALIA, 47(5):1613–
     1625, 1999.
 28. A. Buljac. Understanding, observation and quantification of ductile failure mechanisms via 3D imaging.
     PhD thesis, Université Paris-Saclay, 2017.
 29. A. Buljac, M. Shakoor, J. Neggers, M. Bernacki, P.-O. Bouchard, L. Helfen, T.F. Morgeneyer, and F. Hild.
     Numerical validation framework for micromechanical simulations based on synchrotron 3D imaging. COM-
     PUTATIONAL MECHANICS, 59(3):419–441, 2017.
 30. A. Buljac, T. Taillandier-Thomas, T.F. Morgeneyer, L. Helfen, S. Roux, and F. Hild. Slant strained
     band development during flat to slant crack transition in AA 2198 T8 sheet: in situ 3D measurements.
     INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FRACTURE, 200(1-2):49–62, 2016.
 31. A. Buljac, V.-M. Trejo Navas, M. Shakoor, A. Bouterf, J. Neggers, M. Bernacki, P.-O. Bouchard, T.F.
     Morgeneyer, and F. Hild. On the Feasibility of Calibration of Elastoplastic Parameters at the Microscale via
     X-Ray Microtomography and Digital Volume Correlation for the Simulation of Ductile Damage. Submitted
     for publication, 2017.
 32. B. Cai, S. Karagadde, L. Yuan, T.J. Marrow, T. Connolley, and P.D. Lee. In situ synchrotron tomographic
     quantification of granular and intragranular deformation during semi-solid compression of an equiaxed
     dendritic Al-Cu alloy. ACTA MATERIALIA, 76:371–380, 2014.
 33. B. Cai, P.D. Lee, S. Karagadde, T.J. Marrow, and T. Connolley. Time-resolved synchrotron tomographic
     quantification of deformation during indentation of an equiaxed semi-solid granular alloy. ACTA MATE-
     RIALIA, 105:338–346, 2016.
 34. E. J. Candès, J. Romberg, and T. Tao.          Robust uncertainty principles: Exact signal reconstruction
     from highly incomplete frequency information. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY,
     52(2):489–509, 2006.
 35. E.J. Candès, J. Romberg, and T Tao.
 36. D.C. Champeney. A Handbook of Fourier Theorems. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge (UK), 1987.
 37. Y. Chen, E. Dall’Ara, E. Sales, K. Manda, R. Wallace, P. Pankaj, and M. Viceconti. Micro-CT based finite
     element models of cancellous bone predict accurately displacement once the boundary condition is well
     replicated: A validation study. JOURNAL OF THE MECHANICAL BEHAVIOR OF BIOMEDICAL
     MATERIALS, 65:644–651, 2017.
 38. F.-P. Chiang and L. Mao. Development of interior strain measurement techniques using random speckle
     patterns. MECCANICA, 50(2):401–410, 2015.
 39. F. Chinesta, A. Ammar, and E. Cueto. Recent advances and new challenges in the use of the proper
     generalized decomposition for solving multidimensional models. ARCHIVES OF COMPUTATIONAL
     METHODS IN ENGINEERING, 17(4):327–350, 2010.
 40. C. Choudhari, R. Herblum, M.K. Akens, S. Moore, M. Hardisty, and C.M. Whyne. Post-euthanasia
     micro-computed tomography-based strain analysis is able to represent quasi-static in vivo behavior of
     whole vertebrae. PROCEEDINGS OF THE INSTITUTION OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERS PART
     H-JOURNAL OF ENGINEERING IN MEDICINE, 230(9):900–904, 2016.
 41. J.L. Colliat-Dangus, J. Desrues, and P. Foray. Triaxial testing of granular soil under elevated cell pressure.
     In R.T. Donaghe, R.C. Chaney, and M.L. Silver, editors, Advanced Triaxial Testing of Soil and Rock,
     volume STP 977, pages 290–310. American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, 1988.
 42. J.W. Cooley and J.W. Tuckey. An algorithm for the machine calculation of complex fourier series. MATH-
     EMATICS OF COMPUTATION, 19(90):297–301, 1965.
 43. B. Coudrillier, I.C. Campbell, A.T. Read, D.M. Geraldes, N.T. Vo, A. Feola, J. Mulvihill, J. Albon, R.L.
     Abel, and C.R. Ethier. Effects of Peripapillary Scleral Stiffening on the Deformation of the Lamina Cribrosa.
     INVESTIGATIVE OPHTHALMOLOGY & VISUAL SCIENCE, 57(6):2666–2677, 2016.
 44. B. Coudrillier, D.M. Geraldes, N.T. Vo, R. Atwood, C. Reinhard, I.C. Campbell, Y. Raji, J. Albon, R.L.
     Abel, and C.R. Ethier. Phase-Contrast Micro-Computed Tomography Measurements of the Intraocular
     Pressure-Induced Deformation of the Porcine Lamina Cribrosa. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MEDICAL
     IMAGING, 35(4):988–999, 2016.
 45. N. Dahdah, N. Limodin, A. El Bartali, J.-F. Witz, R. Seghir, E. Charkaluk, and J.-Y. Buffière. Damage
     Investigation in A319 Aluminium Alloy by X-ray Tomography and Digital Volume Correlation during In
     Situ High-Temperature Fatigue Tests. STRAIN, 52(4):324–335, 2016.
 46. E. Dall’Ara, D. Barber, and M. Viceconti. About the inevitable compromise between spatial resolution and
     accuracy of strain measurement for bone tissue: A 3D zero-strain study. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS,
     47(12):2956–2963, 2014.
 47. V. Danesi, G. Tozzi, and L. Cristofolini. Application of digital volume correlation to study the efficacy of
     prophylactic vertebral augmentation. CLINICAL BIOMECHANICS, 39:14–24, 2016.
 48. G.R. Davis and J.C. Elliot. Artefacts in x-ray microtomography of materials. MATERIALS SCIENCE
     AND ENGINEERING, 22(9):1011–1018, 2006.
 49. J. Desrues and E. Andò. Strain localisation in granular media. COMPTES RENDUS PHYSIQUE,
     16(1):26–36, 2015.
 50. J. Desrues, R. Chambon, M. Mokni, and F. Mazerolle. Void ratio evolution inside shear bands in triaxial
     sand specimens studied by computed tomography. GÉOTECHNIQUE, 46(3):529–546, 1996.
 51. J. Desrues, G. Viggiani, and P. Bésuelle, editors. Advances in X-ray Tomography for Geomaterials. Wiley
     / ISTE, London (UK), 2006.
 52. D. L. Donoho. Compressed sensing. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, 52(4):1289–
     1306, 2006.
 53. D. L. Donoho, A. Maleki, and A. Montanari. The noise-sensitivity phase transition in compressed sensing.
     IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, 57(10):6920–6941, 2011.
 54. A. Dubois and L. Vabre. Ultrahigh-resolution OCT using white-light interference microscopy. In Optical
     Methods and Optical Coherence Tomography in Biomedicine VII, volume 4956, pages 14–22. International
     Society for Optics and Photonics, 2003.
 55. D.S. Eastwood, V. Yufit, J. Gelb, A. Gu, R.S. Bradley, S.J. Harris, D.J.L. Brett, N.P. Brandon, P.D. Lee,
     P.J. Withers, and P.R. Shearing. Lithiation-Induced Dilation Mapping in a Lithium-Ion Battery Elec-
     trode by 3D X-Ray Microscopy and Digital Volume Correlation. ADVANCED ENERGY MATERIALS,
     4(4):1300506, 2014.
 56. J.A. Elliott, A.H. Windle, J.R. Hobdell, G. Eeckhaut, R.J. Oldman, W. Ludwig, E. Boller, P. Cloetens, and
     J. Baruchel. In-situ deformation of an open-cell flexible polyurethane foam characterised by 3d computed
     microtomography. JOURNAL OF MATERIALS SCIENCE, 37(8):1547–1555, 2002.
 57. G.E. Elsinga, F. Scarano, B. Wieneke, and B.W. van Oudheusden. Tomographic particle image velocimetry.
     EXPERIMENTS IN FLUIDS, 41(6):933–947, 2006.
 58. H.W. Engl, M. Hanke, and A. Neubauer. Regularization of Inverse Problems. Kluwer, Dordrecht (the
     Netherlands), 1996.
 59. R. Fedele, A. Ciani, and F. Fiori. X-ray microtomography under loading and 3D-volume digital image
     correlation. A review. FUNDAMENTA INFORMATICAE, 135(1-2):171–197, 2014.
 60. R. Fedele, A. Ciani, L. Galantucci, M. Bettuzzi, and L. Andena. A regularized, pyramidal multi-grid ap-
     proach to global 3D-volume digital image correlation based on X-ray micro-tomography. FUNDAMENTA
     INFORMATICAE, 125(3-4):361–376, 2013.
 61. L.A. Feldkamp, L.C. Davis, and J.W. Kress. Practical cone beam algorithm. JOURNAL OF THE OPTI-
     CAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA, A1:612–619, 1984.
 62. X. Feng, M.S. Hall, M. Wu, and C.-Y. Hui. An adaptive algorithm for tracking 3D bead displacements:
     application in biological experiments. MEASUREMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, 25(5):055701,
     2014.
 63. F. Figueroa Pilz, P.J. Dowey, A.-L. Fauchille, L. Courtois, B. Bay, L. Ma, K.G. Taylor, J. Mecklenburgh,
     and P.D. Lee. Synchrotron tomographic quantification of strain and fracture during simulated thermal
     maturation of an organic-rich shale, UK Kimmeridge Clay. JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-
     SOLID EARTH, 122(4):2553–2564, 2017.
 64. T. Fila, O. Jirousek, A. Jung, and I. Kumpova. Identification of strain fields in pure Al and hybrid
     Ni/Al metal foams using X-ray micro-tomography under loading. JOURNAL OF INSTRUMENTATION,
     11:C11017, NOV 2016.
 65. D.P. Finegan, E. Tudisco, M. Scheel, J.B. Robinson, O.O. Taiwo, S. Eastwood, P.D. Lee, M. Di Michiel,
     B. Bay, S.A. Hall, G. Hinds, D.J.L. Brett, and P.R. Shearing. Quantifying Bulk Electrode Strain and
     Material Displacement within Lithium Batteries via High-Speed Operando Tomography and Digital Volume
     Correlation. ADVANCED SCIENCE, 3(3):1500332, 2016.
 66. G. Fischer, J. Nellesen, N.B. Anar, K. Ehrig, H. Riesemeier, and W. Tillmann. 3D analysis of micro-
                                                        μ
     deformation in VHCF-loaded nodular cast iron by CT. MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
     A-STRUCTURAL MATERIALS PROPERTIES MICROSTRUCTURE AND PROCESSING, 577:202–
     209, 2013.
 67. T. G. Flohr, C. H. McCollough, H. Bruder, M. Petersilka, K. Gruber, C. Süβ, M. Grasruck, K. Stierstorfer,
     B. Krauss, R. Raupach, et al. First performance evaluation of a dual-source ct (dsct) system. EUROPEAN
     RADIOLOGY, 16(2):256–268, 2006.
 68. F. Forsberg, R. Mooser, M. Arnold, E. Hack, and P. Wyss. 3D micro-scale deformations of wood in bending:
                            μ
     Synchrotron radiation CT data analyzed with digital volume correlation. JOURNAL OF STRUCTURAL
     BIOLOGY, 164(3):255–262, 2008.
 69. F. Forsberg and C.R. Siviour. 3D deformation and strain analysis in compacted sugar using x-ray mi-
     crotomography and digital volume correlation.      MEASUREMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY,
     20(9):095703, 2009.
 70. F. Forsberg, M. Sjodahl, R. Mooser, E. Hack, and P. Wyss. Full Three-Dimensional Strain Measurements
     on Wood Exposed to Three-Point Bending: Analysis by Use of Digital Volume Correlation Applied to
     Synchrotron Radiation Micro-Computed Tomography Image Data. STRAIN, 46(1):47–60, 2010.
 71. C. Franck, S. Hong, S. A. Maskarinec, D. A. Tirrell, and G. Ravichandran. Three-dimensional full-field
     measurements of large deformations in soft materials using confocal microscopy and digital volume corre-
     lation. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 47(3):427–438, 2007.
 72. J. Fu, M. Haghighi-Abayneh, F. Pierron, and P.D. Ruiz. Depth-Resolved Full-Field Measurement of Corneal
     Deformation by Optical Coherence Tomography and Digital Volume Correlation. EXPERIMENTAL ME-
     CHANICS, 56(7):1203–1217, 2016.
 73. J. Fu, F. Pierron, and P.D. Ruiz. Elastic stiffness characterization using three-dimensional full-field de-
     formation obtained with optical coherence tomography and digital volume correlation. JOURNAL OF
     BIOMEDICAL OPTICS, 18(12):121512, 2013.
 74. M. Gates, J. Gonzalez, J. Lambros, and M.T. Heath. Subset Refinement for Digital Volume Correlation:
     Numerical and Experimental Applications. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 55(1):245–259, 2015.
 75. M. Gates, M.T. Heath, and J. Lambros. High-performance hybrid CPU and GPU parallel algorithm for
     digital volume correlation. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF HIGH PERFORMANCE COMPUTING
     APPLICATIONS, 29(1):92–106, 2015.
 76. M. Genet, L.C. Lee, and S. Kozerke. A continuum finite strain formulation of the equilibrium gap regu-
     larizer for finite element image correlation. CSMA, http://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01661810/, 2017.
 77. A. Germaneau, P. Doumalin, and J.-C. Dupré. 3D strain field measurement by correlation of volume
     images using scattered light: Recording of images and choice of marks. STRAIN, 43(3):207–218, 2007.
 78. A. Germaneau, F. Peyruseigt, S. Mistou, P. Doumalin, and J.-C. Dupré. 3D mechanical analysis of aero-
     nautical plain bearings: Validation of a finite element model from measurement of displacement fields by
     digital volume correlation and optical scanning tomography. OPTICS AND LASERS IN ENGINEERING,
     48(6):676–683, 2010.
 79. F. Gillard, R. Boardman, M. Mavrogordato, D. Hollis, I. Sinclair, F. Pierron, and M. Browne. The ap-
     plication of digital volume correlation (DVC) to study the microstructural behaviour of trabecular bone
     during compression. JOURNAL OF THE MECHANICAL BEHAVIOR OF BIOMEDICAL MATERI-
     ALS, 29:480–499, 2014.
 80. L.A. Gomes Perini, J.-C. Passieux, and J.-N. Périé. A Multigrid PGD-based Algorithm for Volumetric
     Displacement Fields Measurements. STRAIN, 50(4):355–367, 2014.
 81. S. Gondrom and S. Schropfer. Digital computed laminography and tomosynthesis — functional principles
     and industrial applications. JOURNAL OF NONDESTRUCTIVE TESTING & ULTRASONICS, 7(2),
     1999.
 82. S. Gondrom, J. Zhou, M. Maisl, H. Reiter, M. Kröning, and W. Arnold. X-ray computed laminography:
     an approach of computed tomography for applications with limited access. NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
     AND DESIGN, 190(1):141–147, 1999.
 83. M. Grédiac and F. Hild, editors. Full-Field Measurements and Identification in Solid Mechanics. ISTE /
     Wiley, London (UK), 2012.
 84. J.-P. Guillet, B. Recur, L. Frederique, B. Bousquet, L. Canioni, I. Manek-Hönninger, P. Desbarats, and
     P. Mounaix. Review of terahertz tomography techniques. JOURNAL OF INFRARED, MILLIMETER,
     AND TERAHERTZ WAVES, 35(4):382–411, 2014.
 85. A. Guvenilir, T.M. Breunig, J.H. Kinney, and Stock S.R. Direct observation of crack opening as a function
     of applied load in the interior of a notched tensile sample of al-li2090. ACTA MATERIALIA, 45:1977–1987,
     1997.
 86. S. Hall, M. Bornert, J. Desrues, Y. Pannier, N. Lenoir, C. Viggiani, and P. Bésuelle. Discrete and continuum
     analysis of localised deformation in sand using x-ray micro ct and volumetric digital image correlation.
     GÉOTECHNIQUE, 60(5):315–322, 2010.
 87. L. Helfen, T. Baumbach, P. Mikulı́k, D. Kiel, P. Pernot, P. Cloetens, and J. Baruchel. High-resolution
     three-dimensional imaging of flat objects by synchrotron-radiation computed laminography. APPLIED
     PHYSICS LETTERS, 86(7):071915, 2005.
 88. L. Helfen, A. Myagotin, P. Mikulı́k, P. Pernot, A. Voropaev, M. Elyyan, M. Di Michiel, J. Baruchel, and
     T. Baumbach. On the implementation of computed laminography using synchrotron radiation. REVIEW
     OF SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS, 82(063702), 2011.
 89. L. Helfen, A. Myagotin, A. Rack, P. Pernot, P. Mikulı́k, M. Di Michiel, and T. Baumbach. Synchrotron-
     radiation computed laminography for high-resolution three-dimensional imaging of flat devices. PHYSICA
     STATUS SOLIDI (a), 204:2760–2765, 2007.
 90. L. Helfen, F. Xu, H. Suhonen, L. Urbanelli, P. Cloetens, and T. Baumbach. Nano-laminography for
     three-dimensional high-resolution imaging of flat specimens.          JOURNAL OF INSTRUMENTATION,
     8(05):C05006, 2013.
 91. G.T. Herman. Correction for beam hardening in computed tomography. PHYSICS IN MEDICINE AND
     BIOLOGY, 24(1):81, 1979.
 92. G.T. Herman and R. Davidi. Image reconstruction from a small number of projections. INVERSE PROB-
     LEMS, 24(045011), 2008.
 93. F. Hild, A. Bouterf, L. Chamoin, F. Mathieu, J. Neggers, F. Pled, Z. Tomičević, and S. Roux. Toward
     4D Mechanical Correlation. ADVANCED MODELING AND SIMULATION IN ENGINEERING SCI-
     ENCES, 3(17):1–26, 2016.
 94. F. Hild, A. Bouterf, and S. Roux. Damage measurements via DIC From physical to mechanical damage.
     INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FRACTURE, 191(1-2):77–105, 2015.
 95. F. Hild, A. Fanget, J. Adrien, E. Maire, and S. Roux. Three-dimensional analysis of a tensile test on a
     propellant with digital volume correlation. ARCHIVES OF MECHANICS, 63(5-6):459–478, 2011.
 96. F. Hild, H. Leclerc, S. Roux, N. Swiergiel, and Z. Tomičević. Circumventing the Curse of Resolution versus
     Spatial Resolution in Digital Image Correlation: From Local to Global and Regularized Approaches. In
     IUTAM symposium on Advances of Optical Methods in Experimental Mechanics, 2012.
 97. F. Hild, E. Maire, S. Roux, and J.-F. Witz. Three dimensional analysis of a compression test on stone
     wool. ACTA MATERIALIA, 57:3310–3320, 2009.
 98. F. Hild, B. Raka, M. Baudequin, S. Roux, and F. Cantelaube. Multi-scale displacement field measurements
     of compressed mineral wool samples by digital image correlation. APPLIED OPTICS, IP 41(32):6815–
     6828, 2002.
 99. F. Hild and S. Roux. Comparison of local and global approaches to digital image correlation. EXPERI-
     MENTAL MECHANICS, 52(9):1503–1519, 2012.
100. F. Hild and S. Roux. Digital image correlation. In P. Rastogi and E. Hack, editors, Optical Methods for
     Solid Mechanics. A Full-Field Approach, pages 183–228. Wiley-VCH, Weinheim (Germany), 2012.
101. F. Hild, S. Roux, D. Bernard, G. Hauss, and M. Rebai. On the use of 3D images and 3D displacement
     measurements for the analysis of damage mechanisms in concrete-like materials. In J.G.M. Van Mier,
     G. Ruiz, C. Andrade, Yu R.C., and Zhang X.X., editors, FraMCoS-8, pages 1–11, 2013.
102. D.L.G. Hill, P.G. Batchelor, M. Holden, and D.J. Hawkes. Medical image registration. PHYSICS IN
     MEDICINE AND BIOLOGY, 46(3):R1, 2001.
103. Z. Hu, Y. Du, H. Luo, B. Zhong, and H. Lu. Internal Deformation Measurement and Force Chain Char-
     acterization of Mason Sand under Confined Compression using Incremental Digital Volume Correlation.
     EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 54(9):1575–1586, 2014.
104. Z. Hu, H. Luo, S.G. Bardenhagen, C.R. Siviour, R.W. Armstrong, and H. Lu. Internal Deformation Mea-
     surement of Polymer Bonded Sugar in Compression by Digital Volume Correlation of In-situ Tomography.
     EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 55(1):289–300, 2015.
105. J. Huang, X. Pan, S. Li, X. Peng, C. Xiong, and J. Fang. A digital volume correlation technique for 3-D
     deformation measurements of soft gels. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF APPLIED MECHANICS,
     3(2):335–354, 2011.
106. A.I. Hussein, Z.D. Mason, and E.F. Morgan. Presence of intervertebral discs alters observed stiffness and
     failure mechanisms in the vertebra. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 46(10):1683–1688, 2013.
107. A.I. Hussein and E.F. Morgan. The effect of intravertebral heterogeneity in microstructure on vertebral
     strength and failure patterns. OSTEOPOROSIS INTERNATIONAL, 24(3):979–989, 2013.
108. T.M. Jackman, A.M. DelMonaco, and E.F. Morgan. Accuracy of finite element analyses of CT scans
     in predictions of vertebral failure patterns under axial compression and anterior flexion. JOURNAL OF
     BIOMECHANICS, 49(2):267–275, 2016.
109. T.M. Jackman, A.I. Hussein, C. Curtiss, P.M. Fein, A. Camp, L. De Barros, and E.F. Morgan. Quantitative,
     3D Visualization of the Initiation and Progression of Vertebral Fractures Under Compression and Anterior
     Flexion. JOURNAL OF BONE AND MINERAL RESEARCH, 31(4):777–788, 2016.
110. C. Jailin, A. Bouterf, M. Poncelet, and S. Roux. In situ     μCT Mechanical Tests: Fast 4D Mechanical
     Identification. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 57(8):1327–1340, 2017.
                                                                                                       μ
111. C. Jailin, A. Buljac, A. Bouterf, M. Poncelet, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Self-calibration for lab- ct using
     space-time regularized projection-based DVC and model reduction. MEASUREMENT SCIENCE AND
     TECHNOLOGY, in press, 2017.
112. T. Joffre, O. Girlanda, F. Forsberg, F. Sahlen, M. Sjodahl, and E.K. Gamstedt. A 3D in-situ investigation
     of the deformation in compressive loading in the thickness direction of cellulose fiber mats. CELLULOSE,
     22(5):2993–3001, 2015.
113. T.R.C. Johnson, K. Nikolaou, B. J. Wintersperger, A. W. Leber, F. von Ziegler, C. Rist, S. Buhmann,
     A. Knez, M. F. Reiser, and C. R. Becker. Dual-source CT cardiac imaging: initial experience. EUROPEAN
     RADIOLOGY, 16(7):1409–1415, 2006.
114. A.C. Kak and M. Slaney. Principles of computerized tomographic imaging. IEEE Press, New York, 1988.
115. S. Klein, M. Staring, K. Murphy, M.A. Viergever, and J.P.W. Pluim. ELASTIX: A Toolbox for Intensity-
     Based Medical Image Registration. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MEDICAL IMAGING, 29(1):196–205,
     2010.
116. M. Kobayashi, H. Toda, Y. Kawai, T. Ohgaki, K. Uesugi, D.S. Wilkinson, T. Kobayashi, Y. Aoki, and
     M. Nakazawa. High-density three-dimensional mapping of internal strain by tracking microstructural
     features. ACTA MATERIALIA, 56(10):2167–2181, 2008.
117. K. Krupa and M. Bekiesińska-Figatowska. Artifacts in magnetic resonance imaging. POLISH JOURNAL
     OF RADIOLOGY, 80:93, 2015.
118. S. Kullback. Information theory and statistics. John Wiley and Sons, New-York (USA), 1959.
119. J. Lachambre, J. Réthoré, A. Weck, and J.-Y. Buffière. Extraction of stress intensity factors for 3D small
     fatigue cracks using digital volume correlation and X-ray tomography. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL
     OF FATIGUE, 71:3–10, 2015.
120. P. Ladevèze. PGD in linear and nonlinear computational solid mechanics. In Separated Representations
     and PGD-Based Model Reduction, pages 91–152. Springer, 2014.
121. H. Leclerc, J. Neggers, F. Mathieu, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Correli 3.0. Agence pour la Protection des
     Programmes, IDDN.FR.001.520008.000. S. P.2015.000.31500, 2015.
122. H. Leclerc, J.-N. Périé, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Digital volume correlation: what are the limits to the spatial
     resolution? MECHANICS & INDUSTRY, 13(6):361–371, 2012.
123. H. Leclerc, J-N. Périé, S. Roux, and F. Hild. Voxel-Scale Digital Volume Correlation. EXPERIMENTAL
     MECHANICS, 51(4):479–490, 2011.
124. H. Leclerc, S. Roux, and F. Hild. Projection Savings in CT-based Digital Volume Correlation. EXPERI-
     MENTAL MECHANICS, 55(1):275–287, 2015.
125. P. Lecomte-Grosbras, J. Réthoré, N. Limodin, J.-F. Witz, and M. Brieu. Three-Dimensional Investigation
     of Free-Edge Effects in Laminate Composites Using X-ray Tomography and Digital Volume Correlation.
     EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 55(1):301–311, 2015.
126. J. Lemaitre. A Course on Damage Mechanics. Springer-Verlag, Berlin (Germany), 1992.
127. N. Lenoir, M. Bornert, J. Desrues, P. Bésuelle, and G. Viggiani. Volumetric digital image correlation
     applied to X-ray microtomography images from triaxial compression tests on argillaceous rock. STRAIN,
     43:193–205, 2007.
128. P. Leplay, J. Réthoré, S. Meille, M.-C. Baietto, J. Adrien, J. Chevalier, and E. Maire. Three-dimensional
     Analysis of an In Situ Double-torsion Test by X-ray Computed Tomography and Digital Volume Correla-
     tion. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 53(7):1265–1275, 2013.
129. A. Lesman, J. Notbohm, D.A. Tirrel, and G. Ravichandran. Contractile forces regulate cell division in
     three-dimensional environments. JOURNAL OF CELL BIOLOGY, 205(2):155–162, 2014.
130. K.Y. Lim, J.T. Henderson, and C.P. Neu. Cell and tissue deformation measurements: Texture correlation
     with third-order approximation of displacement gradients. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 46(14):2490–
     2496, 2013.
131. N. Limodin, J. Réthoré, J. Adrien, J.-Y. Buffière, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Analysis and Artifact Correc-
     tion for Volume Correlation Measurements Using Tomographic Images from a Laboratory X-ray Source.
     EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 51(6):959–970, 2011.
132. N. Limodin, J. Réthoré, J.-Y. Buffière, F. Hild, S. Roux, W. Ludwig, J. Rannou, and A. Gravouil. Influence
     of closure on the 3D propagation of fatigue cracks in a nodular cast iron investigated by X-ray tomography
     and 3D Volume Correlation. ACTA MATERIALIA, 58(8):2957–2967, 2010.
133. N. Limodin, J. Réthoré, J.Y. Buffière, A. Gravouil, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Crack closure and stress intensity
     factor measurements in nodular graphite cast iron using 3D correlation of laboratory X ray microtomog-
     raphy images. ACTA MATERIALIA, 57(14):4090–4101, 2009.
134. L. Liu and E.F. Morgan. Accuracy and precision of digital volume correlation in quantifying displacements
     and strains in trabecular bone. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 40(15):3516–3520, 2007.
135. W. Ludwig, J.-Y. Buffière, S. Savelli, and P. Cloetens. Study of the interaction of a short fatigue crack with
     grain boundaries in a cast Al alloy using X-ray microtomography. ACTA MATERIALIA, 51(3):585–598,
     2003.
136. P. Ludwik. Elemente der technologischen Mechanik. Verlag Von Julius Springer, Leipzig (Germany), 1909.
137. K. Madi, G. Tozzi, Q. H. Zhang, J. Tong, A. Cossey, A. Au, D. Hollis, and F. Hild. Computation of
     full-field displacements in a scaffold implant using digital volume correlation and finite element analysis.
     MEDICAL ENGINEERING & PHYSICS, 35(9):1298–1312, 2013.
138. B.A. Mae. The revolution in Medical Imaging. Rosen Pub. Group, New York, NY (USA), 2003.
139. F. Maes, A. Collignon, D. Vandermeulen, G. Marchal, and P. Suetens. Multimodality image registration by
     maximization of mutual information. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MEDICAL IMAGING, 16(2):187–198,
     1997.
140. P. C. Mahalanobis. On the generalised distance in statistics. PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL
     INSTITUTE OF SCIENCES OF INDIA, pages 49–55, 1936.
141. J.B.A. Maintz and M.A. Viergever. A survey of medical image registration. MEDICAL IMAGE ANAL-
     YSIS, 2(1):1–36, 1998.
142. E. Maire, J.-Y. Buffière, L. Salvo, J. J. Blandin, W. Ludwig, and J.-M. Létang. On the application of
     x-ray microtomography in the field of materials science. ADVANCED ENGINEERING MATERIALS,
     3(8):539–546, 2001.
143. E. Maire, C. Le Bourlot, J. Adrien, A. Mortensen, and R. Mokso. 20-Hz X-ray tomography during an in
     situ tensile test. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FRACTURE, 200(1):3–12, 2016.
144. E. Maire and P. J. Withers. Quantitative X-ray tomography. INTERNATIONAL MATERIALS RE-
     VIEWS, 59(1):1–43, 2014.
145. M. Makitalo and A. Foi. Optimal inversion of the generalized anscombe transformation for poisson-gaussian
     noise. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, 22(1):91–103, 2013.
146. V. Malfroy Camine, H.A. Rudiger, D.P. Pioletti, and A. Terrier. Full-field measurement of micromotion
     around a cementless femoral stem using micro-CT imaging and radiopaque markers. JOURNAL OF
     BIOMECHANICS, 49(16):4002–4008, 2016.
147. T.J. Marrow, M. Mostafavi, T. Hashimoto, and G.E. Thompson. A quantitative three-dimensional in
     situ study of a short fatigue crack in a magnesium alloy. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FATIGUE,
     66:183–193, 2014.
148. S.A. Maskarinec, C. Franck, D.A. Tirrell, and G. Ravichandran. Quantifying cellular traction forces in
     three dimensions. PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED
     STATES OF AMERICA, 106(52):22108–22113, 2009.
149. F. Mathieu, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Identification of a crack propagation law by digital image correlation.
     INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FATIGUE, 36:146–154, 2012.
150. F. Mathieu, H. Leclerc, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Estimation of elastoplastic parameters via weighted FEMU
     and integrated-DIC. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 55(1):105–119, 2015.
151. S.A. McDonald and P.J. Withers. Combining X-ray microtomography and three-dimensional digital volume
     correlation to track microstructure evolution during sintering of copper powder. JOURNAL OF STRAIN
     ANALYSIS FOR ENGINEERING DESIGN, 49(4):257–269, 2014.
152. A. Mendoza, S. Roux, J. Schneider, and E. Parra. Extraction of topological differences in woven composite
     materials. In 7th Conference on Industrial Computed Tomography, 2017.
153. A. Mendoza, S. Roux, J. Schneider, E. Parra, and E. Obert. Unwrapping textile fabric. In 3rd International
     Conference on Tomography of Materials and Structures, 2017.
154. E. H. Moore. On the reciprocal of the general algebraic matrix. BULLETIN AMERICAN MATHEM-
     MATICAL SOCIETY, 2(26):394–395, 1920.
155. P. Morandi, E. Brémand, P. Doumalin, A. Germaneau, and J.-C. Dupré. New Optical Scanning Tomog-
     raphy using a rotating slicing for time-resolved measurements of 3D full field displacements in structures.
     OPTICS AND LASERS IN ENGINEERING, 58:85–92, 2014.
156. T.F. Morgeneyer, L. Helfen, H. Mubarak, and F. Hild. 3D Digital Volume Correlation of Synchrotron Ra-
     diation Laminography Images of Ductile Crack Initiation: An Initial Feasibility Study. EXPERIMENTAL
     MECHANICS, 53(4):543–556, 2013.
157. T.F. Morgeneyer, T. Taillandier-Thomas, A. Buljac, L. Helfen, and F. Hild. On strain and damage interac-
     tions during tearing: 3D in situ measurements and simulations for a ductile alloy (AA2139-T3). JOURNAL
     OF THE MECHANICS AND PHYSICS OF SOLIDS, 96:550–571, 2016.
158. T.F. Morgeneyer, T. Taillandier-Thomas, L. Helfen, T. Baumbach, I. Sinclair, S. Roux, and F. Hild.
     In situ 3-D observation of early strain localization during failure of thin Al alloy (2198) sheet. ACTA
     MATERIALIA, 69:78–91, 2014.
159. F. Mortazavi, E. Ghossein, M. Levesque, and I. Villemure. High resolution measurement of internal full-
     field displacements and strains using global spectral digital volume correlation. OPTICS AND LASERS
     IN ENGINEERING, 55:44–52, 2014.
160. M. Mostafavi, N. Baimpas, E. Tarleton, R.C. Atwood, S.A. McDonald, A.M. Korsunsky, and T.J. Marrow.
     Three-dimensional crack observation, quantification and simulation in a quasi-brittle material. ACTA
     MATERIALIA, 61(16):6276–6289, 2013.
161. M. Mostafavi, R. Bradley, D.E.J. Armstrong, and T.J. Marrow. Quantifying yield behaviour in metals by
     X-ray nanotomography. SCIENTIFIC REPORTS, 6:34346, 2016.
162. M. Mostafavi, D.M. Collins, B. Cai, R. Bradley, R.C. Atwood, C. Reinhard, X. Jiang, M. Galano, P.D.
     Lee, and T.J. Marrow. Yield behavior beneath hardness indentations in ductile metals, measured by
     three-dimensional computed X-ray tomography and digital volume correlation. ACTA MATERIALIA,
     82:468–482, 2015.
163. M. Mostafavi, S.A. McDonald, H. Cetinel, P.M. Mummery, and T.J. Marrow. Flexural strength and defect
     behaviour of polygranular graphite under different states of stress. CARBON, 59:325–336, 2013.
164. A. Nahas, M. Bauer, S. Roux, and A.C. Boccara. 3D static elastography at the micrometer scale using
     Full Field OCT. BIOMEDICAL OPTICS EXPRESS, 4(10):2138–2149, 2013.
165. J. Neggers, O. Allix, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Big Data in Experimental Mechanics and Model Order
     Reduction: Today’s Challenges and Tomorrow’s Opportunities. ARCHIVES OF COMPUTATIONAL
     METHODS IN ENGINEERING, 24:1–22, 2017.
166. T.T. Nguyen, J. Yvonnet, M. Bornert, and C. Chateau. Initiation and propagation of complex 3D networks
     of cracks in heterogeneous quasi-brittle materials: Direct comparison between in situ testing-microCT
     experiments and phase field simulations. JOURNAL OF THE MECHANICS AND PHYSICS OF SOLIDS,
     95:320–350, 2016.
167. R.A. Novelline. Squire’s Fundamentals of Radiology. Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA (USA),
     2018.
168. M. Palanca, L. Cristofolini, E. Dall’Ara, M. Curto, F. Innocente, V. Danesi, and G. Tozzi. Digital volume
     correlation can be used to estimate local strains in natural and augmented vertebrae: An organ-level study.
     JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 49(16):3882–3890, 2016.
169. M. Palanca, G. Tozzi, L. Cristofolini, M. Viceconti, and E. Dall’Ara. Three-Dimensional Local Measure-
     ments of Bone Strain and Displacement: Comparison of Three Digital Volume Correlation Approaches.
     JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICAL ENGINEERING-TRANSACTIONS OF THE ASME, 137(7):071006,
     2015.
170. B. Pan, B. Wang, D. Wu, and G. Lubineau. An efficient and accurate 3D displacements tracking strategy
     for digital volume correlation. OPTICS AND LASERS IN ENGINEERING, 58:126–135, 2014.
171. B. Pan, D. Wu, and Z. Wang. Internal displacement and strain measurement using digital volume corre-
     lation: a least-squares framework. MEASUREMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, 23(4), 2012.
172. K.J. Parker, M.M. Doyley, and D.J. Rubens. Corrigendum 1: Imaging the elastic properties of tissue: the
     20 year perspective. PHYSICS IN MEDICINE & BIOLOGY, 56(2):513, 2011.
173. K.J. Parker, M.M. Doyley, and D.J. Rubens. Imaging the elastic properties of tissue: the 20 year perspective.
     PHYSICS IN MEDICINE & BIOLOGY, 56(1):R1, 2011.
174. K.J. Parker, M.M. Doyley, and D.J. Rubens. Corrigendum 2: Imaging the elastic properties of tissue: the
     20 year perspective. PHYSICS IN MEDICINE & BIOLOGY, 57(16):5359, 2012.
175. J.-C. Passieux and J.-N. Périé. High resolution digital image correlation using proper generalized decompo-
     sition: PGD-DIC. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL FOR NUMERICAL METHODS IN ENGINEERING,
     92(6):531–550, 2012.
176. J.-C. Passieux, J.-N. Périé, and M. Salaün. A dual domain decomposition method for finite element digital
     image correlation. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL FOR NUMERICAL METHODS IN ENGINEERING,
     102(10):1670–1682, 2015.
177. B.M. Patterson, N.L. Cordes, K. Henderson, J.C. E. Mertens, A.J. Clarke, B. Hornberger, A. Merkle,
     S. Etchin, A. Tkachuk, M. Leibowitz, D. Trapp, W. Qiu, B. Zhang, H. Bale, X. Lu, R. Hartwell, P.J.
     Withers, and R.S. Bradley. In Situ Laboratory-Based Transmission X-Ray Microscopy and Tomography
     of Material Deformation at the Nanoscale. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 56(9):1585–1597, 2016.
178. J.M. Paz-Garcia, O.O. Taiwo, E. Tudisco, D.P. Finegan, P.R. Shearing, D.J.L. Brett, and S.A. Hall. 4D
     analysis of the microstructural evolution of Si-based electrodes during lithiation: Time-lapse X-ray imaging
     and digital volume correlation. JOURNAL OF POWER SOURCES, 320:196–203, 2016.
179. R. Penrose. On best approximate solutions of linear matrix equations. MATHEMATICAL PROCEED-
     INGS OF THE CAMBRIDGE PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY, 52(1):17–19, 1956.
180. M. Petersilka, H. Bruder, Bernhard Krauss, Karl Stierstorfer, and Thomas G Flohr. Technical principles
     of dual source CT. EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF RADIOLOGY, 68(3):362–368, 2008.
181. F. Pierron, S.A. McDonald, D. Hollis, J. Fu, P.J. Withers, and A. Alderson. Comparison of the Me-
     chanical Behaviour of Standard and Auxetic Foams by X-ray Computed Tomography and Digital Volume
     Correlation. STRAIN, 49(6):467–482, 2013.
182. D.P. Popescu, L.-P. Choo-Smith, C. Flueraru, Y. Mao, S. Chang, J. Disano, S. Sherif, and M.G. Sowa.
     Optical coherence tomography: fundamental principles, instrumental designs and biomedical applications.
     BIOPHYSICAL REVIEWS, 3(3):155–169, 2011.
183. D. Prell, Y. Kyriakou, and W.A. Kalender. Comparison of ring artifact correction methods for flat-detector
     CT. PHYSICS IN MEDICINE & BIOLOGY, 54(12):3881, 2009.
184. B. Rahmani, E. Ghossein, I. Villemure, and M. Levesque. In-situ mechanical properties identification of
     3D particulate composites using the Virtual Fields Method. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF SOLIDS
     AND STRUCTURES, 51(18):3076–3086, 2014.
185. J. Rannou, N. Limodin, J. Réthore, A. Gravouil, W. Ludwig, M.-C. Baietto-Dubourg, J.-Y. Buffière,
     A. Combescure, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Three dimensional experimental and numerical multiscale analysis
     of a fatigue crack. COMPUTER METHODS IN APPLIED MECHANICS AND ENGINEERING, 199(21-
     22):1307–1325, 2010.
186. M. Ren, J. Liang, and B. Wei. Accurate B-spline-based 3-D interpolation scheme for digital volume
     correlation. REVIEW OF SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS, 87(12):125114, 2016.
187. J. Réthoré, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Shear-band capturing using a multiscale extended digital image corre-
     lation technique. COMPUTER METHODS IN APPLIED MECHANICS AND ENGINEERING, 196(49-
     52):5016–5030, 2007.
188. J. Réthoré, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Extended digital image correlation with crack shape optimization. IN-
     TERNATIONAL JOURNAL FOR NUMERICAL METHODS IN ENGINEERING, 73(2):248–272, 2008.
189. J. Réthoré, N. Limodin, J.-Y. Buffière, F. Hild, W. Ludwig, and S. Roux. Digital volume correlation
     analyses of synchrotron tomographic images. JOURNAL OF STRAIN ANALYSIS FOR ENGINEERING
     DESIGN, 46(7):683–695, 2011.
190. J. Réthoré, S. Roux, and F. Hild. An extended and integrated digital image correlation technique applied to
     the analysis fractured samples. EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF COMPUTATIONAL MECHANICS, 18:285–
     306, 2009.
191. J. Réthoré, S. Roux, and F. Hild. Optimal and noise-robust extraction of fracture mechanics parameters
     from kinematic measurements. ENGINERRING FRACTURE MECHANICS, 78(9):1827–1845, 2011.
192. J. Réthoré, J.-P. Tinnes, S. Roux, J.-Y. Buffière, and F. Hild. Extended three-dimensional digital image
     correlation (x3d-dic). COMPTES RENDUS MÉCANIQUE, 336:643–649, 2008.
193. B.C. Roberts, E. Perilli, and K.J. Reynolds. Application of the digital volume correlation technique for
     the measurement of displacement and strain fields in bone: A literature review. JOURNAL OF BIOME-
     CHANICS, 47(5):923–934, 2014.
194. B.A. Roeder, K. Kokini, J.P. Robinson, and S.L. Voytik-Harbin. Local, three-dimensional strain mea-
     surements within largely deformed extracellular matrix constructs. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICAL
     ENGINEERING-TRANSACTIONS OF THE ASME, 126(6):699–708, 2004.
195. T. Rohlfing, C.R. Maurer, D.A. Bluemke, and M.A. Jacobs. Volume-preserving nonrigid registration of MR
     breast images using free-form deformation with an incompressibility constraint. IEEE TRANSACTIONS
     ON MEDICAL IMAGING, 22(6):730–741, 2003.
196. S. Roux and F. Hild. Stress intensity factor measurements from digital image correlation: post-processing
     and integrated approaches. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF FRACTURE, 140(1-4):141–157, 2006.
197. S. Roux, F. Hild, P. Viot, and D. Bernard. Three-dimensional image correlation from X-ray computed
     tomography of solid foam. COMPOSITES PART A-APPLIED SCIENCE AND MANUFACTURING,
     39(8):1253–1265, 2008.
198. S. Roux, J. Réthoré, and F. Hild. Digital image correlation and fracture: An advanced technique for
     estimating stress intensity factors of 2d and 3d cracks. JOURNAL OF PHYSICS D: APPLIED PHYSICS,
     42:214004, 2009.
199. D. Rueckert, L.I. Sonoda, C. Hayes, D.L.G. Hill, M.O. Leach, and D.J. Hawkes. Nonrigid registration
     using free-form deformations: application to breast MR images. IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MEDICAL
     IMAGING, 18(8):712–721, 1999.
200. L. Salvo, P. Cloetens, E. Maire, S. Zabler, J.-J. Blandin, J.Y. Buffière, W. Ludwig, E. Boller, D. Bellet,
     and C. Josserond. X-ray micro-tomography an attractive characterisation technique in materials science.
     NUCLEAR INSTRUMENTS AND METHODS IN PHYSICS RESEARCH SECTION B: BEAM IN-
     TERACTIONS WITH MATERIALS AND ATOMS, 200:273–286, 2003.
201. L. Saucedo-Mora, M. Mostafavi, D. Khoshkhou, C. Reinhard, R. Atwood, S. Zhao, B. Connolly, and T.J.
     Marrow. Observation and simulation of indentation damage in a SiC-SiC fibre ceramic matrix composite.
     FINITE ELEMENTS IN ANALYSIS AND DESIGN, 110:11–19, 2016.
202. L. Saucedo-Mora, C. Zou, T. Lowe, and T.J. Marrow. Three-dimensional measurement and cohesive element
     modelling of deformation and damage in a 2.5-dimensional woven ceramic matrix composite. FATIGUE
     & FRACTURE OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS & STRUCTURES, 40(5):683–695, 2017.
203. F. Scarano. Tomographic PIV: principles and practice. MEASUREMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOL-
     OGY, 24(1):012001, 2013.
204. J. Schneider, H. Leclerc, F. Hild, and S. Roux.       Procédé de caractérisation d’une pièce.    Patent,
     WO2015092212 A1.
205. I.J. Schoenberg. Contributions to the Problem of Approximation of Equidistant Data by Analytic Func-
     tions. Part A. QUARTERLY OF APPLIED MATHEMATICS, 4:45–99, 1946.
206. M. Shakoor, A. Buljac, J. Neggers, F. Hild, T.F. Morgeneyer, L. Helfen, M. Bernacki, and P.-O. Bouchard.
     On the choice of boundary conditions for micromechanical simulations based on 3D imaging. INTERNA-
     TIONAL JOURNAL OF SOLIDS AND STRUCTURES, 112:83–96, 2017.
207. T.S. Smith, B.K. Bay, and M.M. Rashid. Digital volume correlation including rotational degrees of freedom
     during minimization. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 42(3):272–278, 2002.
208. S.R. Stock. Recent advances in X-ray microtomography applied to materials. INTERNATIONAL MA-
     TERIALS REVIEWS, 53(3):129–181, 2008.
209. C. Studholme, D.L.G. Hill, and D.J. Hawkes. Automated 3-D registration of MR and CT images of the
     head. MEDICAL IMAGE ANALYSIS, 1(2):163–175, 1996.
210. C. Sukjamsri, D.M. Geraldes, T. Gregory, F. Ahmed, D. Hollis, S. Schenk, A. Amis, R. Emery, and
     U. Hansen. Digital volume correlation and micro-CT: An in-vitro technique for measuring full-field interface
     micromotion around polyethylene implants. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 48(12):3447–3454, 2015.
211. F. Sur and M. Grédiac. Measuring the noise of digital imaging sensors by stacking raw images affected by
     vibrations and illumination flickering. SIAM JOURNAL OF IMAGING SCIENCES, 8(1):611–643, 2015.
212. M.A. Sutton, J.J. Orteu, and H. Schreier. Image correlation for shape, motion and deformation measure-
     ments: Basic Concepts, Theory and Applications. Springer, New York, NY (USA), 2009.
213. T. Taillandier-Thomas, S. Roux, and F. Hild. Soft Route to 4D Tomography. PHYSICAL REVIEW
     LETTERS, 117(2):025501, 2016.
214. T. Taillandier-Thomas, S. Roux, T.F. Morgeneyer, and F. Hild.        Localized strain field measurement
     on laminography data with mechanical regularization. NUCLEAR INSTRUMENTS & METHODS IN
     PHYSICS RESEARCH SECTION B-BEAM INTERACTIONS WITH MATERIALS AND ATOMS,
     324:70–79, 2014.
215. A.N. Tikhonov and V.Y. Arsenin. Solutions of ill-posed problems. J. Wiley, New York (USA), 1977.
216. H. Toda, E. Maire, Y. Aoki, and M. Kobayashi. Three-dimensional strain mapping using in situ X-ray
     synchrotron microtomography. JOURNAL OF STRAIN ANALYSIS FOR ENGINEERING DESIGN,
     46(7):549–561, 2011.
217. H. Toda, I. Sinclair, J.-Y. Buffière, E. Maire, K.H. Khor, P. Gregson, and T. Kobayashi. A 3d measure-
     ment procedure for internal local crack driving forces via synchrotron x-ray microtomography. ACTA
     MATERIALIA, 52:1305–1317, 2004.
218. Z. Tomičević, F. Hild, and S. Roux. Mechanics-aided digital image correlation. JOURNAL OF STRAIN
     ANALYSIS FOR ENGINEERING DESIGN, 48:330–343, 2013.
219. Z. Tomičević, J. Kodvanj, and F. Hild. Characterization of the nonlinear behavior of nodular graphite
     cast iron via inverse identification-Analysis of uniaxial tests. EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF MECHANICS
     A-SOLIDS, 59:140–154, 2016.
220. G. Tozzi, V. Danesi, M. Palanca, and L. Cristofolini. Elastic Full-Field Strain Analysis and Microdamage
     Progression in the Vertebral Body from Digital Volume Correlation. STRAIN, 52(5):446–455, 2016.
221. G. Tozzi, Q.-H. Zhang, and J. Tong. Microdamage assessment of bone-cement interfaces under monotonic
     and cyclic compression. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 47(14):3466–3474, 2014.
222. H. Tran, P. Doumalin, C. Delisée, J.-C. Dupré, J. Malvestio, and A. Germaneau. 3D mechanical analysis of
     low-density wood-based fiberboards by X-ray microcomputed tomography and Digital Volume Correlation.
     JOURNAL OF MATERIALS SCIENCE, 48(8):3198–3212, 2013.
223. C. Truesdell and W. Noll. The Non-Linear Field Theories of Mechanics, volume III/3. Springer-Verlag,
     Berlin (Germany), 1965.
224. E. Tudisco, S.A. Hall, E.M. Charalampidou, N. Kardjilov, A. Hilger, and H. Sone. Full-field Measurements
     of Strain Localisation in Sandstone by Neutron Tomography and 3D-Volumetric Digital Image Correlation.
     PHYSICS PROCEDIA, 69:509–515, 2015.
225. E. Tudisco, C. Jailin, A. Mendoza, A. Tengattini, E. Andò, S. Hall, G. Viggiani, F. Hild, and S. Roux. An
     extension of digital volume correlation for multimodality image registration. MEASUREMENT SCIENCE
     AND TECHNOLOGY, 28(9):095401, 2017.
226. I. Vajda. Theory of statistical inference and information, volume 11. Kluwer Academic Pub, 1989.
227. W. Van Aarle, W.J. Palenstijn, J. De Beenhouwer, T. Altantzis, S. Bals, K.J. Batenburg, and J. Sijbers.
     The ASTRA Toolbox: A platform for advanced algorithm development in electron tomography. ULTRA-
     MICROSCOPY, 157:35–47, 2015.
228. P.A. van den Elsen, E.J.D. Pol, and M.A. Viergever. Medical image matching: a review with classification.
     IEEE ENGINEERING IN MEDICINE AND BIOLOGY MAGAZINE, 12(1):26–39, 1993.
229. G. Van Gompel, K. Van Slambrouck, M. Defrise, K. J. Batenburg, J. de Mey, J. Sijbers, and J. Nuyts.
     Iterative correction of beam hardening artifacts in CT. MEDICAL PHYSICS, 38(S1):S36–S49, 2011.
230. E. Verhulp, B. van Rietbergen, and R. Huiskes. A three-dimensional digital image correlation technique
     for strain measurements in microstructures. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICS, 37(9):1313–1320, 2004.
231. Y. Vertyagina, M. Mostafavi, C. Reinhard, R. Atwood, and T.J. Marrow. In situ quantitative three-
     dimensional characterisation of sub-indentation cracking in polycrystalline alumina. JOURNAL OF THE
     EUROPEAN CERAMIC SOCIETY, 34(12):3127–3132, 2014.
232. K. Wan and P. Yang. Expanded digital volume correlation for ex situ applications. MEASUREMENT
     SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, 26(9), 2015.
233. B. Wang, B. Pan, R. Tao, and G. Lubineau. Systematic errors in digital volume correlation due to the
     self-heating effect of a laboratory x-ray CT scanner. MEASUREMENT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY,
     28(5):055402, 2017.
234. L. Wang, N. Limodin, A. El Bartali, J.-F. Witz, R. Seghir, J.-Y. Buffière, and E. Charkaluk. Influence of
     pores on crack initiation in monotonic tensile and cyclic loadings in lost foam casting A319 alloy by using
     3D in-situ analysis. MATERIALS SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING A-STRUCTURAL MATERIALS
     PROPERTIES MICROSTRUCTURE AND PROCESSING, 673:362–372, 2016.
235. T. Wang, Z. Jiang, Q. Kemao, F. Lin, and S.H. Soon. GPU Accelerated Digital Volume Correlation.
     EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 56(2):297–309, 2016.
236. W. M. Wells, P. Viola, H. Atsumi, S. Nakajima, and R. Kikinis. Multi-modal volume registration by
     maximization of mutual information. MEDICAL IMAGE ANALYSIS, 1(1):35–51, 1996.
237. P.J. Withers. X-ray nanotomography. MATERIALS TODAY, 10(12):26–34, 2007.
238. F. Xu, L. Helfen, T. Baumbach, and H. Suhonen. Comparison of image quality in computed laminography
     and tomography. OPTICS EXPRESS, 20:794–806, 2012.
239. S. Xu and K.J. Grande-Allen. The Evolution of the Field of Biomechanics Through the Lens of Experi-
     mental Mechanics. EXPERIMENTAL MECHANICS, 50(6):667–682, 2010.
240. Z. Yang, W. Ren, R. Sharma, S. McDonald, M. Mostafavi, Y. Vertyagina, and T.J. Marrow. In-situ X-ray
     computed tomography characterisation of 3D fracture evolution and image-based numerical homogenisation
     of concrete. CEMENT & CONCRETE COMPOSITES, 75:74–83, 2017.
241. Y.N. Yeni, B. Wu, L. Huang, and D. Oravec. Mechanical Loading Causes Detectable Changes in Morpho-
     metric Measures of Trabecular Structure in Human Cancellous Bone. JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICAL
     ENGINEERING-TRANSACTIONS OF THE ASME, 135(5):54505, 2013.
242. R. Zauel, Y.N. Yeni, B.K. Bay, X.N. Dong, and D.P. Fyhrie. Comparison of the linear finite element predic-
     tion of deformation and strain of human cancellous bone to 3D digital volume correlation measurements.
                                  JOURNAL OF BIOMECHANICAL ENGINEERING-TRANSACTIONS OF THE ASME, 128(1):1–6,
                       2006.
           243. M.-L. Zhu, Q.-H. Zhang, C. Lupton, and J. Tong. Spatial resolution and measurement uncertainty of strains
                       in bone and bone-cement interface using digital volume correlation. JOURNAL OF THE MECHANICAL
                       BEHAVIOR OF BIOMEDICAL MATERIALS, 57:269–279, 2016.
           244. X. Zhuge, W. J. Palenstijn, and K. J. Batenburg. TVR-DART: a more robust algorithm for discrete
                       tomography from limited projection data with automated gray value estimation. IEEE TRANSACTIONS
                       ON IMAGE PROCESSING, 25(1):455–468, 2016.
           245. B. Zitová and J. Flusser. Image registration methods: a survey. IMAGE AND VISION COMPUTING,
                       21(11):977–1000, 2003.
View publication stats
